I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999 , and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period . 
You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka . 
I would ask that they reconsider , since this is not the case . 
I would like Mr Barón Crespo , who made the request , to speak to propose it . 
We shall proceed to vote on the PPE - DE Group &apos; s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda . 
I would appreciate it if , on the close of this item of business , I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group . 
It would be useful for the record of the House to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis . 
I should like to address one final point . 
I would like , first of all , to thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the report and , secondly , the Commission for the proposal it has submitted . 
I would like to mention one final point . 
I should like to make just a few comments . 
I can live with these minimum standards , but I would ask the Commission to monitor the situation very carefully . 
I would like to briefly comment on the Commission &apos; s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road . 
She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report . 
I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament &apos; s position . 
The time has come to implement the programmes , and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly . 
I would like to explain our thinking here . 
I would like to ask if the Commission is able to enlighten us on the reasons for the delay in the Commission &apos; s report on the outermost regions , which has been long awaited by Parliament ? 
I should be very grateful , Mrs Schroedter , if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations . 
They are growing , but only in terms of GDP . 
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions . 
I am thinking , for example , of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations . 
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France , Sweden , Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow . 
We have discussed this and I have attempted to clarify my point of view . 
They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities . 
I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later . 
We must give them this opportunity . 
I should like to mention a few specific points . 
We have taken note of this . 
I would ask you to bring this specific case , which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor , to the attention of the Quaestors , who are , in fact , responsible for the matter . 
It should continue along this path . 
Competition should bring about balance in supply and demand and should provide for the optimum distribution of economic resources and facts . 
The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition . 
We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other . 
I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary - speak , inappropriately in your case , as a maiden speech . 
It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid . 
They have lost their status , and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant . 
You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice , both brought by German courts , which question the feasibility of applying 81(1 ) without being able to apply 81(3 ) . 
I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti . 
We have been told how , currently , people &apos;s time is being wasted and that the changes , therefore , could be beneficial . 
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that . 
We can be proud of a European competition culture , for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality . 
I will give you an example : the European Union was right to support the Grönitz steelworks in Brandenburg , although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained . 
It would weaken a key element of European policy . 
I will take these very quickly one at a time . 
I must say that I find this a very good idea that we will probably take up . 
We have received many excellent observations and contributions which give us the material to make a cost - benefit assessment for business . 
We are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for SMEs . 
We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised . 
We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency , transparency , and the protection of the rights of individuals . 
We can set another example here , to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular , fraud , and to mete out punishment where necessary . 
I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question . 
We should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and , especially , change our practice . 
This issue has been brought once again to the fore by Commissioner Vitorino &apos; s timely decision to ask the IGC to include in its agenda the creation of this new role , which everyone considers vital . 
I was wondering whether this is the correct procedure . 
We are convinced that the opposite is true , and we do not think that state aid is by definition excessive . 
You are going to commission a fact - finding mission . 
We should be aware , for example , that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil . 
Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility , the identity of the owners and real decision - makers as impenetrable as possible . 
This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency . 
I will tell you a few things we should do . 
We must reach agreement here , in all the European Union &apos; s ports , from Marseilles , through to Rotterdam , to Wilhelmshaven , Cuxhaven , and wherever ships drop anchor . 
I would compare the situation with an earlier generation &apos; s introduction of the Plimsoll line , a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels . 
I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls . 
It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial , but include materials testing . 
We must be tougher on vessels flying flags of convenience , not because they are necessarily bad boats , but because amongst these boats there are many bad ones . 
We would like to know their names and their faces . 
I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels &apos; structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions . 
States can carry out port inspections . 
We must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end . 
We will have the opportunity to do so on other occasions . 
We have taken good note of your intentions . 
I am telling you all of this to illustrate how complex the problem is , and I thank the Commission once again for extending their analysis of this situation as far as it could . 
They have earned the confidence of their fellow - citizens . 
I am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies , which have been particularly badly hit . 
I would like to congratulate the regional authorities , the volunteers and the public services on the fantastic way in which they rallied round but , unfortunately , their troubles are not yet over . 
We must work more rapidly towards achieving the targets stipulated in the White Paper for renewable energy sources , as this would bring about a massive reduction in greenhouse gases . 
We have heard that in a short space of time the storm left us with approximately 120 million cubic metres of solid timber , and this is only an estimate . 
I have listened to you very attentively Commissioner , and welcome with open arms the fact that you are intending to go and see for yourself the effects the catastrophe has had in France and in Germany . 
We must make the perpetrators liable for all manner of damage done to our environment . 
It has become clear that mankind continues to be unable to avoid natural disasters . 
We must reduce CO2 emissions , employ renewable energies , and generally make enquiries , in this connection , as to how the forests of Europe are faring . 
We can save it from year to year and ensure that when something major happens we have an instrument to deal with it . 
I would like to tell Commissioner Barnier that in me he has an active ally for this idea which strikes me as noble and truly European in spirit . 
Decades will have gone by before we are able to determine the true extent of the damage sustained by the forestry industry . 
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
We are setting out a challenging and ambitious agenda for change . 
This idea will be the focus of much scrutiny and debate . 
We must create a permanent and truly independent , excellent and transparent system of risk assessment . 
I will be very interested to hear the views of Parliament itself in relation to this matter . 
We must develop greater certainty in the science that underpins food safety in the European Union . 
I should say that the pieces of legislation that we have identified are intended to close gaps in existing legislation . 
I would ask you on what you base your ideas for a location ? 
Others may take the view that it would be a valuable exercise if Parliament , through nominees or even MEPs themselves , were able to have an opportunity to discuss what issues should be investigated . 
They will be aware that they have heard from the authority before under other circumstances and hopefully will have some bedrock of confidence already built up in the pronouncements from the authority . 
I will do everything I can to promote that high profile role for the authority . 
We will dedicate approximately one hour and fifteen minutes to Question Time . 
We will cut back our time a little because the interpreters are working today in continuous session . 
I have explained the position of the Commission . 
It will form the framework for emergency assistance for combating war damage if such action should be needed . 
I would point out that doing nothing will be the death of Tibetan culture and will mean the end of the Tibetan people . 
Equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals , action plans and strategies . 
These programmes have benefited Kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent , Tajikistan . 
Some workers have complained to the European Commission because they do not have the right to retire . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner expressly to confirm that the scheme has not been approved by the Commission . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter , for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the Danish socio - political debate . 
Discussions are being held between the European Commission and Denmark , and Denmark is expected to notify the Commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation . 
I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report , it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation . 
We have had problems in the past in terms of our responsibility in carrying out discharge because we have not had access to the documents we should have had . 
We have put down an amendment to that effect . 
I would like to raise the problems which are still piled up high on our desks . 
A document is circulating at the moment - not at a low level , but at a high level within the Commission - which , instead of enhancing the public nature of documents , is having the opposite effect . 
DGs must publish their own annual accounts so as to enable a clear identification of problem areas and set annual targets for reducing fraud and irregularities . 
A proposal can be made , a proposal should be made , on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty , by the middle of this year . 
They must be assessed by Parliament and should be made legally binding . 
They must be implemented without delay . 
This communication must contain a clear timetable . 
I would point out that there is no European legal system , but that a different legal system exists in each Member State . 
It would have been wrong for Parliament to have put in willy nilly every single recommendation that came from an external body because Parliament should have its own opinion on these issues . 
I will give you one example of this . 
We have submitted an amendment to this effect . 
It would be marvellous if this report were to give the green light to result - oriented spending of this kind , with all the work organised on that basis . 
You have said some powerful and worthwhile things yourself , but take care now that you do not dodge the crucial issues , the ones where it hurts ! 
We should get it into perspective . It is important to remember that . 
People should have clearly - defined powers to take decisions for which they should also be accountable . 
We should be careful about this . 
We should retain some form of ex ante financial control . 
We must get away from the idea that we are rushing to put out a fire in one corner , only then to have to rush again to put out the next one . 
We have asked for a Public Prosecutor &apos; s Office and criminal law , but we also need administrative law for the EU . 
I do agree that the section on officials has , in fact , been completed totally inadequately . 
We must win back their faith in EU politics . 
I would say to Mr Elles that we are most definitely in listening mode . 
That service will open on 1 May this year . 
We are seeking to implement best practice . 
I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and , therefore , I hope to see him there soon . 
We must be leading protagonists while staying off a collision course with the United States , as Minister Gama said . 
I should like to make it quite clear : if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria , the problem in this region will be solved . 
This hope is contained in our motion for a resolution . We hope for a fair and balanced agreement based on respect for sovereignties and the right to live securely within safe and recognised borders . 
We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them . 
We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports , but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives ; they have disappeared . 
I must stress once again the Portuguese Presidency &apos; s earnest desire for political agreement to be reached on the scoreboard at the informal Council in Lisbon on 3 and 4 March . 
We should remember that the most disadvantaged include immigrants and refugees . 
They were treated like the worst criminals . 
They were stripped naked and dragged along the floor by their hair , surrounded by a horde of state security police . 
We must take the best from each of our countries . 
It has been a relative shock to our political leaders to find we must now take a share of the refugees that have been coming into the European Union for a long time . 
We are coming from behind in dealing with the issue and the government is doing its utmost to catch up . 
The agenda is designed to transfer vital parts of society &apos; s criminal law , policy on crime and administration of justice to the EU &apos; s control . 
It is concerned with increased integration which , as part of a duplicitous package , involves increased repression and control . 
I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon , one or two of which were referred to earlier on . 
I would like to make three brief points . 
I should like to give you an example of one way in which you can meet these expectations relatively quickly in at least one small segment . 
We must make sure that what we do makes clear sense . 
I should like to have an answer to that question . 
I can assure you that this is an issue which the Portuguese Presidency will keep before the Member States and the representatives of the preparatory group for the conference . 
We shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter . 
I would like to state that this transfer will not increase the pressure of fishing on anchovy stocks overall , over the whole Community fishing area . 
We have endeavoured to provide material help . 
We have tried to defend peace by taking military action . 
I would like to point out that in May 1999 we adopted a new system for supporting rural development which was the fourth Community reference framework for sustainable rural development . 
I would like an answer as to whether or not the Portuguese Presidency intends to do something about these matters . 
You must understand that a presidency &apos; s ability to reverse global social or economic trends during its six months in office is actually quite limited . 
We will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency . 
I would like to thank the presidency for the comprehensive answer to my question , and indeed the Minister who spoke to the Committee on Development last week in Brussels outlining the position . 
I would like to thank the President - in - Office of the Council , and I would personally like to welcome him and the Portuguese Presidency . 
It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves . 
I would ask him to be brief . 
It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty . 
This question has been debated in several national parliaments of the EU . 
We must ask what instruments we can use in order to create the order here which has been missing in the past . 
We can take action against this ; it is possible . 
Who is going to defend these speculators , when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax ? 
It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this . 
We can do so without going off at other tangents . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 21 January 2000 . 
Sanctions can be imposed after the Treaties have been violated , but can not be applied if a democratically elected party enters government . 
We are talking about us , not Austria . 
We must make a rapid , strong and united response . 
We should recognise , however , that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results . 
We will continue to do that with energy and with consistency and as Mr Cox said in the debate , &apos; necessarily with acute vigilance &apos; . 
Measures taken must be proportional to the chosen level of protection - that is , we do not use the sledgehammer to crack a nut . 
We have been awaiting a common communication from the Commission on the precautionary principle for a very long time now and it was anything but clear in the past as to whether the Commission speaks with one voice . 
It can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete . 
I am wondering , therefore , if you are preparing such a ban and if it would not fit in very well with your approach to the precautionary principle itself to come up with such an initiative . 
It was raised quite recently in the Environment Council by a number of ministers who want the Commission to look at what basis there might be for a ban and at what might need to be done . 
We are going to be able to use this as an example of how the precautionary principle is to be interpreted . 
I have used chemical strategy as a good example of an area in which we need to do this . 
This teratogenicity has been demonstrated by just one English laboratory , perhaps because it is the only one that has carried out tests . 
We should be in no doubt that conflicts may arise in the future too , but we can now show that we do not use the precautionary principle arbitrarily . 
We could have voted on the 17th of this month and the Conference would not have been able to start on the 14th . 
We are going to work seriously to ensure that the Europeans come to see being European as an advantage and that European citizens have certain fundamental rights which are connected to the Union &apos; s institutions . 
We will talk about this on another day . 
Nobody is asking for an IGC of the Maastricht style with a hundred or more subjects being debated . 
They have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this IGC . 
I would like to thank the Commission for the proposals they have put forward and I am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the European Parliament , on all the issues you have raised . 
This message must be very clear ; this is how we explain the way we shall vote tomorrow . 
We must examine whether any changes are needed to this end which would fall within the scope of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
I can assure you that it was not easy to achieve this , last week in the Committee I chair , but we eventually decided to back the Portuguese Presidency and we would like to win this wager . 
This effort was appreciated , even if different views were later expressed as regards the proposals , and moreover , Mr President - in - Office , you also expressed different views . 
I am convinced that this is an error of judgement . 
You can think what you like about Mr Haider , and I personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician , but you can not just intervene in an independent and friendly country &apos; s democratic process . 
We would accept the division of the Treaties providing it would not limit the control the smaller Member States had in the re - negotiation of the whole policy area of the Treaty . 
I will mention two point that may create tension . 
It will become totally invisible ! 
It has been said many times . 
We must be much more daring with regard to the issues dealt with in the IGC and we must be much more transparent and much more democratic . 
I have said , furthermore , that I would play my part by visiting each of the national parliaments . 
It will have to initiate these negotiations . 
It can count on the partnership of the Commission over the next few months . 
We have expected the citizens to take on board the transition from EEC to EC to EU . 
We would be doing neither ourselves nor the citizens any favours if we were to christen the product we are proposing to deliver " EC service provision card " and not " EU service provision card " . 
I would urge the Council and the Commission to move in this direction . 
I would like to add that Amendment No 10 to that proposal is wholly acceptable . 
It has caused me to reflect on two problems which have come to me recently in my own constituency . 
The decision could have huge implications for our local economy . 
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could confirm in his final remarks that he will do this . 
I have been informed that the rapporteur has been delayed for several minutes . 
He will join us and speak as soon as he arrives . 
We have been asked for EUR 35 million . 
We would like to link the granting of all aid to the availability of the amounts due from the other donors . 
I would like to point out to Mrs Albright that what we have read recently in the press is true , and that figures do not lie . 
I would like to say to Mrs Pack that I am in complete agreement with her when she says that the Commission should insist that other contributors fulfil their commitments . 
I would like to appeal to those Ministers not to cast doubt upon that agreement which was really very difficult to reach . 
This mission is being conducted under the auspices of the United Nations and we can not have a situation where the European Union is the only one to fulfil its obligations . 
I would like to highlight the issue of human rights . 
The conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the Altener programme as put forward by the Conciliation Committee is , after all the difficult phases it has been through , at least satisfactory . 
I would hope that the contribution of ALTENER would lead to more initiatives . 
We have heard a lot about difficulties of competition in renewable energies but energy efficiency saves money for business , saves money all round in fact and therefore it should be non - problematical . 
We could do rather more , considering that we have made great commitments in reducing CO2 and greenhouse gases and to reduce dependence on energy imports . 
I would like once again to thank all who helped in this conciliation process . 
This improvement has been achieved with fresh funds , as we said at the time , and it has been achieved while safeguarding this Parliament &apos; s prerogatives and competences . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur , who really has chipped away tirelessly at this monumental task , in conjunction with the Commissioner of course . 
I would like to stress that culture is not only funded from this particular pot . 
We do drink port wine , and we do like German beer , and we even use Finnish saunas , but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat . 
The outcome can be considered reasonable , when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council . 
I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted , but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make . 
I would like to express my delight , with you , at this pleasing outcome . 
I would like this participation to be as extensive and productive as possible and I undertake to work to ensure that in the course of the five years covered by the programme it becomes a tangible reality . 
We must understand that the bigger picture is important when it comes to the environmental impact of cars . 
I would ask you to support this common position . 
We shall vote against any amendments which run counter to these considerations . 
I can gauge its importance for my country &apos; s international reputation . 
I am opposed to making the car owners liable . 
He has delivered excellent work under pressure both from his colleagues and from the car industry . 
The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals . 
It would be a precedent which would open the door to all sorts of pressure in many other areas . 
It should be possible for changes to be made to companies and for the latter to be sold and wound up . 
They should be able to establish themselves in new markets , but also to leave old markets . 
Some businesses have become hi - tech businesses , because they managed to recycle certain materials , even materials which are not yet included in the directive . 
We have calculated that the cost of recycling cars does not constitute more than one per cent of the price of a new car . 
It would amaze and depress me if it were not to do so today . 
You have received a letter of complaint from me about the number of mistakes in this report and in other reports with which I have had dealings recently . 
I shall consult the parliamentary services to see how we can find a solution . 
I shall read it in English , which is the original language of the resolution . 
We will have to enlist the support of the many existing networks of women scientists and to obtain their assistance in framing a joint research policy . 
I have rejected the entire directive , not least because Amendment No 34 to Article 12 and the amendments to Article 5/4 have not received an adequate majority here in the House . 
We should apply this principle rationally and calmly , correctly targeted and without ideology . 
I dare say this because I took the trouble to go into the field and collect information from , among others , scrapyards which already recycle car components successfully . 
Some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim , but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them : 
You will agree , furthermore , that the texts adopted by this House always call for Community jurisdiction , and that includes for the Charter of Fundamental Rights which is currently being drawn up . 
The time has come , we feel , for in - depth consideration of how to put the Community system of jurisdiction in order and to guarantee a fitting quality of justice . 
It is expressed again in the unbelievable excess perpetrated by the European Parliament which today in its vote on a resolution wished to cancel out the result of the free elections in Austria . 
Who is imposing their will on the nations of Europe , daring to stop them choosing their own fate ? 
He has led efforts to end provision for Austria &apos; s Slovene - speaking minority and assistance to immigrants . 
We shall obtain the very opposite of what we want . 
I am voting in favour of it because it is inconceivable that the European Parliament , after its excellent political debate yesterday , should not adopt a stance on this matter . 
We have condemned Basque and Irish terrorism . 
Others would argue that we should suspend judgement until we see the detail of such an agreement . 
We must concern ourselves with the reasons for this and try to deal with the reasons behind such results . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000 . 
I can see from your reaction that many of the Members of Parliament have not received the Minutes and clearly you can not approve Minutes which you have not seen . 
I shall look into this matter with the College of Quaestors . 
They will look into the matter thoroughly . 
I would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , not to start a debate at this point . 
I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January . 
I would ask you once again to work on this . 
I would like to assure you as quaestor in charge of this issue that we have had technical discussions about the various channels on television and radio , and I have already started mailing colleagues in this connection . 
We have tried to drive this proposal through . 
I would like to thank the Commission services for their helpfulness and cooperation , and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the contribution they have made through their amendments . 
I would ask them the following questions : does your policy seek to marginalise people ? 
Attention must be paid in the LEADER+ programme to all the sectors of the economy in rural areas ; only a combined effort will reap an optimal result . 
Efforts should be made here to achieve shorter times . 
We must create joint , interregional and transnational management bodies , in which all local and regional authorities , as well as economic and social operators , play an active role . 
The programme has been extremely successful in Ireland , as indeed I know it has been successful in other countries . 
It would be very easy to have these programmes developed quickly and on time if you brought in outside professional experts but that would undermine the whole purpose of the URBAN programme . 
It must be stressed that in order to become eligible under the LEADER programme , local operators have combined forces , debated and prepared projects . 
We are debating the planning phase and guidelines for the four Community initiatives without access to any substantive and complete appraisal of the previous period . 
It should be used for innovative projects and it should not completely disappear into the Finance Minister &apos; s treasury funds . 
I would be in favour of supporting self - contained cycles of projects and , even though LEADER I and LEADER II may have had shortcomings here and there , overall they were certainly positive . 
It is fostered by a fair appraisal of our assets . 
I am counting on the Commission , and specifically on you , Commissioner , to allocate adequate resources for effective action . 
We have seen the NOW project helping 70 women to return to work in Suffolk , many of whom were able to come and share the results of their experience directly with us at the European Parliament in Brussels . 
I must add , however , that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States . 
It can accept all of the others either in full or in essence . 
I have classified the issues raised by the honourable Members into four groups . 
We would expect from each technical office a full description of the product so that the work can be monitored and appraised . 
I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees . 
I have received your letter and have already contacted the British Permanent Representative . 
I should like the vote on the Community EQUAL initiative to be postponed because we need a bit more time to negotiate an important point . 
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature . 
I would like to remind you of one thing : it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here . 
We will publish this material and bring it forward in the debate on the Swoboda report later this week . 
I would like to take this opportunity to help you recognise them . 
We can submit motions for this together with you . 
We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes . 
You have made a bold start by rightly emphasising the need to focus on so - called " core tasks " . 
I am thinking in this respect of the important issue of taxation which I am not , however , going to talk about . 
You must submit a new social action programme to us by the end of the year . 
We are working on the basis of a directive whose limitations have been clearly demonstrated . 
You must realise that this process needs to be accelerated . 
I am convinced that the Bible , God &apos; s word , is the only pure source of proper standards and real values . 
We must hold fast to joint decision - making institutions which embrace the Member States . 
We must show them that we intend to use the next five years to help them join the rich regions by promoting the less favoured regions using reasonable means . 
They are expecting us not to fall in with globalisation but rather , on the basis of our social model , to be able to organise globalisation . 
It has been extolled and celebrated as a huge achievement and I am all for it ; we need a basis for a scoreboard . 
We must be brave and not only see some aspects of globalisation . 
You may draw your own conclusions . 
I am waiting for the Commission &apos; s report on the ultra - peripheral regions , which the Council decided should be drawn up by December 1999 . 
It would be a tragedy if their efforts were to be undermined by deficiencies in EU legislation . 
We will be looking for the detail year by year , for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year . 
We will be looking at the extent to which we can create an equilateral policy triangle combining economic policy , employment policy and social policy . 
We must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry . 
I would like to inform you that there is a delegation from Kuwait , led by His Excellency , Sheikh Salem Al - Sabah , Vice - Prime Minister and Defence Minister , here in the official gallery . 
We should remember that it is these URBAN projects which specifically allow a truly urban policy to be established . 
The state can ensure public safety and the local authorities can help disadvantaged people . 
It would be more appropriate for the EU to concentrate its financial efforts on pre - existing European policies . 
These failings will result in particular in the late implementation of INTERREG III and therefore in financial losses for the regions in receipt of aid . 
This partnership has ensured peace and stability in our part of Europe for over 50 years . 
I should point out that the text which we have now worked out is a valid compromise , both for your legal service and ours . 
We must confront increasing public awareness of GMOs by regulating their use in feedingstuffs accordingly . 
The consumer must remain free to make a fully informed decision . 
What has happened in recent years has brought to our attention the tremendous problems facing not only to the producers of food but also the consumers . 
We must strike a balance between them . We must resolve this issue , because it is important that consumers should regain confidence in the food they eat . 
I shall deal with each of the individual amendments separately . 
It is being addressed and will be addressed in a comprehensive way , particularly in Directive 90/220 . 
It will become more difficult once we see the TSE proposal , Mr Byrne . 
Animals are bought throughout Europe and transported over the entire continent . 
We must ensure that nothing can enter the food chain or the animal compound feed to allow what we have experienced in the past to happen again in the future . 
It will be there for some time to come . 
I have been informed that you welcome this initiative , as appears from your contributions this afternoon , to formulate a single text . 
This convergence must be effective and specific and must commit us to action . 
We must set objectives which are equal to the challenges facing us . Yet we do not have much time . 
We have seen vote after vote lost . Measure after measure has come out of the Environment Committee . 
We have failed to achieve a qualified majority . 
We should like to see the scope of a couple of points extended . 
The topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result , we have been able to draft important , more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading . 
A list has been compiled , containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment . 
It would be to send out the wrong signals both to European industry and to the European people . 
This Convention should be our guide in working for the clean environment which we owe to ourselves and , not least , to our descendants . 
We can achieve this long - term objective by developing measures with demanding standards . 
The debate is suspended and will resume at 9 p.m. 
We will produce a regular summary of this initiative so that public opinion can be measured and we can adjust or reorient the work . 
We will have a budget of approximately EUR 4 million for 2000 which you will hopefully approve . 
You are expected to ask questions , not necessarily make lengthy statements . 
I can confirm that our proposal is completely within the spirit of the resolution of 18 November . 
We will conduct this dialogue with our citizens , including the most disadvantaged and those isolated from decision - making or information centres . 
We will open an Internet forum and create permanent discussion forums . 
He can come with both the hats that he wears as a Commissioner . 
I would like to ask him how vigorous the Commission will be in this information campaign ? 
I can perform this dual task . 
You have answered the questions precisely and also opened the dialogue for Europe that you referred to . 
We are dealing with a horrific story in Kosovo . 
We will try to address them , but it is not easy . 
We have heard anxieties expressed on that point and I will ensure it is taken up . 
We will raise that , too , in the representations we make . 
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes ? 
I can assure you that the Commission will do its best to promote the debate on the future Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
The dialogue has been fruitful and has led to our preparing a proposal . 
I would like to know whether you are going to stop completely the funding at this stage until there is a proper investigation . 
You will have to discuss this outside the Chamber . 
I am saying this objectively and when a problem or shortcoming is noted , this must be remedied . 
I will go further in the written answer which I have promised in order to set things out more objectively and precisely . 
I will verify this point and , if you wish , I will give you a written answer at the same time as the one I have promised to Mr MacCormick . 
I have given you my answer . 
I would like to remind all of you that Spain is about to hold elections , and in fact there are just 25 days left before the elections . 
It should be of comfort to the Commissioner that these elections will take place in 25 days time , since after that he will probably not have to deal with this type of question again . 
I would like to answer these two questions as follows . 
I would repeat at this juncture what Professor Lindgren of Lund University has stated , namely that whatever happens in terms of import restrictions , the consumption of alcohol will remain the same . 
I should like to reply very briefly to the question raised by the honourable Member , since this matter is now under active consideration by the Commission . 
We will be doing a general disservice to the objectives of this important directive if we are not able to provide it with the necessary flexibility and adaptability to guarantee compliance with its provisions . 
We must make sure that we get started quickly with the programme to improve water quality . 
Action must get under way immediately . We can not afford to waste time . 
I would like to comment on one issue , which was spoken about earlier . 
It has been a huge task , and I should like to express my support for all of Mrs Lienemann &apos; s amendments . These are all improvements to the common position . 
I must say , however , that , there are discrepancies between the countries in the north and south concerning water , and that is why the matter can not be dealt with in the same way . 
I would propose that Amendment No 92 should be incorporated into a broader solution . 
I would like to hear the Commissioner &apos;s view on Amendment No 45 . 
I may have missed it in the list she gave out . 
I would stress the LIFE - NATURE strand in particular . 
I would say that in my opinion - and the experiences we have had in the past tend to show this - that reconciling opinions on comitology is rather easier than reconciling opinions on the budget . 
I should like to say that those who run down this policy in their own States bear the responsibility for obstructing European nature conservation policies . 
What has happened over the past few days with the pollution of the Danube and its tributary has been instructive . 
This instrument could finance good projects with a higher amount of money than that quoted in the proposed budget . 
The date will be fixed as soon as the present regulation has been adopted . 
We have had a constructive discussion in the Committee . 
Some people have wondered whether our demands are too low or whether there should be more dialogue . 
The issues involved are extremely important but the systems in the European Union are quite different from one another . 
I will give my support to the Commission and I hope that Lisbon will take us a step forward in this matter . 
Something must be done so that unemployment does not turn the so - called European model into a parody . 
We must be very aware of the situation of those people whose prospects of finding work are threatened or reduced by economic changes , mergers , take - overs , new technologies etc . 
The problem has been overcome . 
It is worrying that the position adopted by the previous Parliament does not support this balanced WIPO system . 
It would be as if the deliveryman had to pay a copyright fee whenever he carried a book to be read by the purchaser . 
I would like to stress the importance of both Treaties . 
I would like to add that the flight from Amsterdam &apos; s Schipol airport was also delayed and then cancelled . 
We were told that a bus would meet us there on arrival . 
This item has been postponed until the next part - session in March . 
I shall outline some of the major innovations in the new agreement . 
We have met the concerns of the ACP states as far as the time - frame of the trade negotiations is concerned . 
Negotiations will start no later than 2002 . 
This process will take place in the coming five years so that , by 2005 , the LDCs &apos; exporters will have free access for essentially all their products on the EU market . 
We will launch a broad and open consultation process in order to get the views of all the different parties interested . 
I would like to give you a few examples to illustrate these contradictions . 
The government is obliged to show up any of its dilemmas , and to show where , when and why , problems occur with coherence of policy , rather than sweeping it all under the carpet . 
We encourage developing countries to respect human rights . 
We must leave raw materials so that local manufacturers can process them . 
I will give some examples shortly . 
I shall conclude with a few words about the Internet revolution . 
This technology can facilitate that necessary quantum leap forward in development policy to which I referred and , in this connection , the EU can set the agenda , leave its mark on development and honour its global responsibilities . 
We are talking in general terms - and this is more serious - about contradictions between our economic and trade policies and our defence policies . 
I have left to the end a question that I regard as fundamental and which I think needs to be noted and approved by this House . 
What could be the cause of this ? 
It should be an extremely constructive contribution to the debate we are conducting . 
I have given you a statement on behalf of the Commission which I think provides a useful background to this discussion . 
We will furnish more detailed material relating directly to all the issues concerning coherence . 
I have read - and heard in the debate - that coherence is being used as some kind of a miracle formula that takes care of everything . 
I have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
This initiative is being discussed within the Union , but with no hope of a decision in the near future . 
I am going to be so unwise as to allow one or two personal reflections to creep into my remarks . 
It would be self - indulgent and self - defeating , as well as insulting to over a fifth of humanity , to want anything else . 
We have made our views very clear to them . 
I can speak for my party , which championed Austria &apos; s membership of the European Union in the early days . 
We have followed a nominal list which was identical to that which we had agreed upon beforehand with the Socialist Group . 
I am convinced that the rapporteur &apos; s nationality has played a certain role , which should not be of relevance in this Parliament . 
I should like to see our Parliament defend a more ambitious position than the Council &apos; s position , but I should also like that position to be equally credible . 
It must be perfectly clear to all citizens that the EU will only become involved in those issues it is best qualified to deal with , which is to say cross - border issues . 
It should adopt an approach that is not just a statement of principle but is an acknowledgement of the true situation and possibly even a pledge of support . 
I would like to warn against a blurring of standards in the assessment of human rights situations in Africa , where violations are viewed as a necessary evil . 
I would recommend to you ongoing audits of human rights practices , eternal vigilance , not just outside our borders but within . 
I would repeat what Mr Patten said : we must engage , we must inform , educate and thereby effect real and lasting change . 
We should be grateful that there are Heads of State like Vaclav Havel in our Europe . 
It is happening with Buddhism in Tibet . We must never forget to defend civil society . 
Someone must be held to account for the events that took place there , some of which I saw with my own eyes as a representative of this House ; they can not go unpunished . 
She will be able to fill a filing cabinet with letters about what is claimed to be the real situation in China . 
It has been a useful debate . I hope we can have further debates like this . 
I have had a little to do with this too . 
I must make it clear to you that we need this financial regulation , the one that has yet to be decided on here , before we can even get started . 
I would urge him to do so for his answer will determine the way in which we decide to vote on the various proposed amendments we have before us . 
The ship was sinking and the captain realised that it was sinking and that it was not even going to make it to the next port . 
Statements were made and pressure was brought to bear on the various Member States who have undertaken to make police resources available to honour their commitments . 
I would like to make this clear on behalf of the Council , so that there can be no doubt . 
It is worrying that the bombing has aggravated the situation , and we should recognise that it was a mistake on the part of NATO and the European Union to take such action . 
I would like to ask him a supplementary question in a wider context . 
We are making an overall value judgement about NATO &apos; s action , and this overall value judgement is positive . We agree with the general view of NATO &apos; s action . 
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes ? 
This matter should form part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
I would remind Members that , according to the guidelines for these sittings , questions must be concise and be worded in a way which will allow a brief answer . 
I would like to say that the Council will only be able to respond to that part of your question in writing , at a later date . 
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the Budget of the European Union is approved by common agreement between the Council and this Parliament . 
I would ask that we be judged on our results , when we endeavour to reach a more concrete solution in the near future . 
I will be happy to come back to Parliament to respond to and clarify the problems which may conceivably occur if a result is not reached , or to congratulate all of you if this result is achieved . 
I would ask you to allow me to refrain from commenting on this matter . 
We have had question times to the Council and the Commission and to the ACP Council , and I would like to thank those institutions for their interest in our work . 
The resolution passed went so far as to say that poverty amounted to a violation of human rights . 
We must give them all our support to reach that goal . 
I shall restrict my speech to one particular act which took place a few days ago , partly as a consequence of events alluded to in the report we are debating here . 
We must follow up words with action . 
I should like us to take a leading role in this work . 
That system has proved itself to be inappropriate because it is , in actual fact , of use only to relatively few of the 71 countries concerned . 
I am convinced that the four other countries are wondering what is going to happen . 
They have suffered enough , first under the Soviet yoke and then from the high price they paid for being forced to become part of the communist bloc . 
We have reached a propitious moment and I think the Macedonians are glad about it . 
The region should recognise that Macedonia exists and that it will continue to exist . 
We must be sure that , in seeking allies in the area , we must not always choose anyone who offers . 
He has been a great friend to Parliament and a great servant of the Commission . 
It will reflect the European Union &apos;s position on its relations with the countries of the western Balkans as set out in the Cologne European Council conclusions . 
I will take another look at the issue , although I should point out that having two PHARE programmes up and running risks real confusion . 
I would ask for that to be checked again . 
I must add that it is a welcome change to see Mrs Frassoni in such a conciliatory mood and willing to reach compromises with the other institutions . 
We confer implementing powers on the Commission , but then it is only a Council or Member State appointed body that can blow the whistle and say no to the Commission and stop the implementing measure . 
We will have the chance to scrutinise , to debate , to question . 
We have been willing to relinquish the provisions in that . We shall have to be very vigilant on what used to be covered by that agreement and is not fully covered by the new decision . 
We must be very vigilant . 
I would say the ones the Commission was able to satisfy have been satisfied . 
This adjustment will make it possible to estimate the deficits and debts in the Member States more precisely . 
He has done really good work in a very short time . 
The figures will be more reliable and more comparable and I think the concerns some Members have raised about compliance with the stability pact can be better addressed . 
We must press on in that direction because we know it is vital . 
It has taken two years for the Council and the Commission to produce this proposal . 
The euro will enter into circulation on 1 January 2002 and will become one of the world &apos; s most important reserve currencies . 
We are going through a dangerous transitional phase in which a phenomenon has appeared in criminal law that is perhaps unique in monetary history . 
I should like an answer from the Commission and the Council , for I consider it obvious that Article 31 does not supply the relevant legal basis . 
They will need time to get used to that too . 
It has been pointed out that this framework decision is in fact a decision in the area of criminal law . 
I would propose that we carry on in the normal way for the time being . 
We will have to revisit this issue again in the near future . 
It would be wrong to allow the regulated and protected undertakings to invest in other undertakings involved in such risky investments . 
We have achieved a compromise solution . 
The legislator should protect the general interest and introduce safeguard clauses . 
We must put an end to this . 
We might have been able to agree to the original text insofar as it was informed by a legitimate concern to update current legislation . 
We are talking about the use of derivatives to reduce risk and to increase the returns on the savings of ordinary Europeans . 
I would like to finish off by commenting on the remarks made by a few Members this morning and , Mr President , with your permission , I will do this in English . 
I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Council is not present today . 
The chain is arranged in such a way as to ensure that it can not fall as a whole within the competence of one court . 
It could be maintained that in overall terms the legislation proposed is better than nothing , but to the Commission it nevertheless appeared insufficient and far from reassuring . 
I should like to stress this point because it is paramount . 
You were asking for the place to be changed . 
I was told that this was a personal response . 
We shall address this problem and check all the translations . 
I should like you , Madam President , to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future . 
I would ask you to use the full name of our Group . 
The funding will provide technical and financial support to enable the two islands to meet the requirements of the Community &apos; acquis &apos; . 
These offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 January 2002 . 
We must bear in mind that national currencies could continue to change hands for another 20 years ! 
It must be a &apos; development round &apos; , in which developing countries , effectively excluded from previous rounds , are fully included . 
Companies must be able to anticipate and identify at an early stage what they need to do to ensure the continuity of their activities . 
We have had in the recent past different experiences and approaches on how to deal with large - scale operations of corporate restructuring , often affecting the lives of large numbers of European people . 
We have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the European Union . 
I do hope that this will not be necessary . 
The sitting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and resumed at 4.05 p.m. 
We should be tackling the issue of immigration in a comprehensive and rigorous manner . 
They will take a long time , as we are finding out . 
These events have caused us great pain and shame and have awoken our fears given the extreme racism , xenophobia and intolerance demonstrated . 
We must bear in mind that vengeance is not a solution . 
Employers would be lost without immigrants . 
We must take practical steps today to put an end to all attacks of a physical nature . 
We must insist today as a matter of urgency on the right to education and the duty to remember , to recall the dates in history when our countries teetered on the brink of horror . 
We must take to the streets of Europe to protest against these alliances with extremists which are a disgrace to Europe and which lead our youth astray . 
We have adopted resolutions in the past but they usually are nothing but a warning shot , as nothing is actually done with them . 
I would insist on changing our procedures and on the fact that the Council should be present during the topical debate , so that we can enter into direct consultation with the Council . 
I would ask the Commission and the absent Council at long last to do something for these political prisoners . 
What is disconcerting , however , is Mr Kouchner &apos; s sharp criticism levelled at the French Government these days . 
I would ask the Council and the Commission to look into these serious allegations carefully and inform the European Parliament of the outcome . 
The journalist had brought to light a corruption scandal in the President &apos; s cabinet . 
I would like to challenge Portugal to deliver proof to the contrary , by making commercial interests subservient to human rights , to which so much lip service is being paid . 
They are facing expulsion and have been fighting a battle of survival for dozens of years . 
We would ask the Council and the Commission for clear and prompt action and a political initiative which does not overlook the issue of human rights . 
We have received reports from human rights organisations saying that Russian soldiers killed and apparently even executed citizens - I am talking about old men and women - in Grozny . 
I would be in favour of its doing so . 
The environment must be a priority area within the reunification of the European continent . 
We must bring these reservoirs under Community law and the directives on waste and we must use the precautionary principle to ensure that this type of event does not happen again . 
I have been informed that the Commissioner for the Environment , Margot Wallström , has travelled from Strasbourg to Romania in order to see for herself , on the spot , what has happened . 
We must demand that there should be no exceptions which could jeopardise people &apos; s health and the ecosystems . 
Who is going to pay ? 
It has destroyed an entire ecosystem in a matter of days . No living organisms , from microbes to otters , have been spared . 
We will want , in the longer term , to see what lessons can be drawn from this disaster , above all to see how to prevent such disasters happening in the first place . 
Society must have the means of enforcing its own agenda on large companies and their owners . 
Tourism must be environmentally friendly if it is to continue to be an asset in the future . 
I am referring to sex tourism . I know that action is being taken against this so - called tourism elsewhere , but we must remember the European Union &apos; s responsibility at this level . 
We are losing market share . I believe we have to do something to make ourselves more competitive . 
I would take this opportunity to ask him a couple of questions directly . 
I would remind you that questions on the Minutes should refer to the Minutes . 
We should consider on principle whether there is any point at all in holding these kinds of meetings . 
The process should be allowed to continue and be given the necessary encouragement . 
Experience has shown that the old monopolies can not provide the type of efficient service which , as customers , we are all entitled to expect . 
It is alleged in a circular that the price of postage has gone up by 59 per cent since liberalisation in 1993 . 
I would be grateful if you would not interrupt other Members . 
I would welcome more concrete information on this . 
I would like more information on this , because the key question is how you can better serve the customer using the existing services . 
I would remind you of the fact that the Belgian telephone company had to recall employees who had been sent into retirement in order to prevent too much know - how and expertise from disappearing from the company . 
They can be the cheapest for a while only by means of a drop in quality for their customers and employees . 
A fault confessed is half redressed . 
We should define the universal service precisely , establish efficiency criteria and then issue invitations to tender . 
It would be obscene to wish to settle the fate of hundreds of thousands of postal workers , millions of service users , in a great rush . 
This study is taking far too long and we feel it is important to speed up the pace at last . 
What has happened over the past 200 years is that the time it takes for a letter to go from Munich to Brussels has increased fivefold . 
It has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from Edinburgh to the Central Highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across London . 
We can see in the incumbent operators , in public post offices , a change of culture that I believe nobody can consider negative if the current trend towards concentrating on customers &apos; needs continues . 
We can salute them , these postmen who , whatever the weather , sometimes walk for miles to be able to offer this service to everyone . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 18 February 2000 . 
I would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to observe one minute &apos; s silence in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco and Jorge Díez Elorza . 
We are building a vast European area which will firstly be linked economically and then politically . 
Everyone can be what they want to be because , if Ireland and Britain are both in the European Union , there is no point in killing each other for being Irish or British . 
I would like to emphasise that , on that occasion too , the Commission voted unanimously , with one voice . 
We are going to create a management and control system in every Directorate - General . 
I shall leave to Neil Kinnock the task of explaining the details of the reform , but I would first like to thank him for the intelligence , enthusiasm and energy he has brought to this exercise . 
I would stress that this style of debate is something very new and , in my opinion , it has forced us to radically change our way of thinking as well . 
We will make the best use of the resources at the Commission &apos; s disposal , but they are very limited and we have almost exhausted them . 
We may need to come back to you and ask for additional resources to fund the new tasks which have been assigned to us and those which will be assigned to us in the future . 
I would like to make one last point in answer to Mr Harbour . 
I would like everything to happen much more quickly . 
We are concentrating on core tasks and we are concentrating on priorities , not in order to evade any obligations but to absolutely guarantee that we can totally fulfil the central obligations that we have . 
I do believe that reform with all it implies , including the new mechanisms , will very strongly facilitate changes of that kind . 
We are doing it in order to try to explain in the fullest terms the system into which they will be entering . 
You can be satisfied with the progress made . 
I must thank Commissioner Patten who is here today for his support and the tremendous energy that he has also invested in trying to ensure that all these issues could be settled in such a short time . 
I will set this out in five points . 
I am thinking partly of the forthcoming and important humanitarian , peace - keeping and peace - making tasks . 
You might have added , Mr Solana , &apos; to give me their instructions &apos; , because that is what we see , in fact . 
It should be acknowledged , however , that he noted down and undertook to answer as quickly as possible the questions asked by Members . 
I should like to take advantage of your presence here today to ask you two questions of the " what is to be done " variety . 
We have taken fifteen years to achieve Economic and Monetary Union . 
We can take fifteen years for the defence and security policy and foreign policy , but the process must be clear . 
I would like to ask both gentlemen how they view the long - term future . 
War is threatening to break out again in the Gulf . 
I do hope that the Commissioner will have the necessary perseverance to also produce the necessary reforms within the Commission - but then , of course , she is young and full of energy . 
I would say to the Portuguese minister that I completely agree with her that what is at issue here is the fact that you can not obtain equal rights without equal power . 
It would be sufficient to determine the composition of the ministries and assemblies by means of a statistical calculation . 
No action has been taken on our report which unanimously proposed a European framework status for assistant spouses . 
I would like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their speeches and for committing themselves before the European Parliament on the crucial matter we are discussing today . 
I would suggest the following : where possible , apply it on a voluntary basis , where there is reluctance , impose it . 
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) . 
I would like to emphasise , however , that the EU and the rest of the world must not limit their aid to Mozambique to the emergency that we are now discussing . 
We must be aware of the aftermath of the floods . 
I would like to think that the EU is up to the task of providing the people of Mozambique with what they expect from us . 
It will be voting against it . 
This unification is considered to be positive by the Commission &apos; s report . 
I would like to say that I strongly disagree with Mrs Villiers &apos; view that this is such an interesting debate . 
It would have been much better if we had actually made the effort to reach compromises and to develop a common vision . 
Employment is growing at a good rate . 
I would like to know from the Commission how it has processed this recommendation , which is also endorsed by the Advisory Committee . 
They have seen their own waters plundered by others while they have had to put up their own boats and desist from fishing . 
It should be put on record , and I want to put it on record today . 
It should be pointed out that not all the Member States have the same amount of data . 
I am informed when I take a closer look that the information is in fact quite higgledy - piggledy with bits coming from here and there and no clear , proper economic and biological picture emerging . 
I am opposing Amendments 7 to 13 which were decisively rejected by the Fisheries Committee . 
Nobody has undertaken any studies on human tissue in that regard . 
I am advised that ISA is considered non - pathogenic for humans and mammals . 
You may know that with effect from 15 January 2000 , under the new financial instrument for fisheries guidance , Member States may encourage eradication of diseases in aquaculture . 
I must emphasise , however , that there are serious constraints . 
I will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals . 
It must be further examined whether and how scientific research in other parts of the Community must be organised . 
These panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention . 
These conditions are binding , however contracting parties may lodge objections within a six - month period . 
It was agreed that the SCRS should present a study at the 1998 meeting . 
I am referring to this now because I will not have time to speak later on . 
One can quote from the communication . 
What can be done to alleviate the damage done to fishing communities ? 
It has been imposed upon them that they can not fish for about an 11 to 12 week period . 
He must have reconsidered and , in so doing , has , as usual , shown great respect for this House . I thank him for this . 
We must get to work and lead the way in these issues which are damaging our environment and destroying industries and occupations . 
We must adopt preventative measures which can stop disasters like this from happening in the future . 
The regions affected are outlying ones with an unstable economic balance . They have been profoundly affected by this oil slick which , unfortunately , is not an isolated event . 
These events could be prevented with more care and control by the public authorities . 
We must act as a catalyst in this crucial issue of maritime pollution . 
We must learn from past experience and make sure that the industries affected by the Braer spill can be rebuilt . 
I would like to advocate this . 
He has given us some important information . The Commissioners who appear before this House armed with specific and important information are always to be thanked . 
It has been said that the Commission will meet to adopt a range of technical and legal measures . 
I have received 5 motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 42(2 ) . 
I shall try to provide you with the additional information you are now seeking on this matter . 
Goods do flow freely from these territories , goods produced in Israeli settlements in the occupied territories . 
We should be requiring deposits on all goods imported from Israel until we are able to ensure that Israel will stop abusing the agreement . 
This data must be reliable , drawn up independently and accepted by all the operators in the industry , politicians and those individuals responsible for the application of this CFP . 
The disease was detected in Norway in 1984 and also in Canada ( 1996 ) . 
It was detected in this region in May 1998 . 
States must develop a public service offering childcare for working mothers . 
We are opposed to the idea that the biological differences between men and women should give rise to two different world views and two different value systems . 
I shall continue by deploring the excessively cautious approach of the right wing in the European Parliament which , by adopting a whole raft of amendments , has robbed my colleague &apos; s work of its substance ! 
We must encourage better management of working time and the dissemination of policies of good practice within Member States in order to increase levels of employability , particularly among the most disadvantaged sectors of the working population . 
It was made painfully clear that a number of players need to be removed from the pitch in order to ensure that the Erika was the last unseaworthy ship to pollute the Breton coast . 
This procedure should be adopted as a model , since it will make it possible to expedite the compensation of victims , be they private individuals or public authorities . 
Everyone must play their own part . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 March 2000 . 
I would like to say that I was , like yourself , extremely shocked to hear this and immediately wrote to the Mayor of Strasbourg in order to get to the bottom of this issue . 
You will be aware that terrible things happen to these women , that they are tortured and their families threatened . 
We will assess the situation when in Brussels too , and then see what should be done . 
It would have been better if she had obtained channels in all languages . 
I will restrict myself in this speech to presenting the Commission &apos; s contribution to Lisbon - our long - term strategy and our vision for this Summit . 
We have been through a tough period , but I can assure you that there is nothing unrealistic in this goal . 
We must be constantly , fully aware of the areas in which we have lost ground , and there are many of them . 
We must disseminate best practice in all fields and endeavour to advance it at European level . 
I would like to raise a few issues from our perspective . 
Work must be the most sensible way of improving the welfare of families , but if it really is not possible , we have in place society &apos; s safety net to prevent exclusion . 
We might mention the skills deficit as one example . 
I would ask whether this would be fair to countries less developed than ours , as this would create a brain drain for them . 
I am moved to describe it myself rather as an enlightened Liberal project . 
We can do that by enabling Europe and its peoples to achieve our full potential . 
These measures should be geared towards full employment and guarantee a rate of employment of around 75 % by 2010 . 
You might think that a country would wish to limit unemployment by means of public investment , but that is prohibited . 
We have had to establish that , despite the many investments being made in structural funds , the unemployment figures still vary greatly . 
We must continue to put in place comprehensive training programmes for the youth and long - term unemployed in both urban and rural areas within Europe . 
It would seem that the exorbitant profits made in the casino that is the international finance market have no impact on inflation . 
I have seen IT companies which are unbelievably spoiled . 
We have banned them here in the Chamber , rightly , because they are instruments of torment . 
Who could challenge such an ambition ? 
We were forced to experience this several times in the nineties . 
This scenario has moved into the foreseeable future . 
What is needed , in this regard , are stronger measures , which do not yet feature in the Commission &apos; s work programme , but to which you could give some impetus . 
We will offer you our support in Lisbon in laying down new guidelines for the European Union &apos; s economic policy . 
We are asking right now for a transition to a new society , to an economy based on innovation , and on the information and knowledge - based society . 
We must learn quickly , create new practices more suited to the new society and invest in technological change , but we must never forget the people or the institutions . 
I would like to draw your attention to three specific points . 
We must maintain a textile industry in Europe , but this will only happen if we are able to apply the technologies of the information and knowledge society . 
We could call this irrationality political populism , or excessive nationalism , or religious fundamentalism , or racism or xenophobia . 
I should like to request that you contribute to the sitting &apos;s reaching a speedy conclusion by keeping to the speaking times . 
They should be involved , and determine the framework and rules , but leave it to the Commission to implement the actual project . 
It must allow scope for the countries concerned to determine for themselves what their problems are , and let them draw up a plan to improve the situation and find a solution themselves . 
It has been made easier for Eastern Europe to participate . 
I do believe that somehow we will make it . 
Ports must be equipped with reception facilities . 
I have sounded out a number of people on this subject . 
I would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal , and with which we are therefore in complete agreement . 
I could go on , but the two reasons have already been stated . 
I would ask for support for a more positive position , supplemented - I insist - with Amendment No 16 by Mr Sterckx , which would provide us with the necessary guarantees . 
The rapporteur has adopted a perfectly good position in this issue , in the final analysis . 
The directive will be more efficacious if the Member States can negotiate a harmonised system of penalties . 
These inspections may be carried out by the roadside , in ports and in other places where vehicles park , or , as is more frequent in the case of public service vehicles , on the operator &apos;s premises . 
I declare resumed the 2000 - 2001 session of the European Parliament . 
I should prefer for this vote to be held tomorrow . 
It would suit me , personally , and I do not think anyone would have any objection , since it is a relatively brief vote . 
I should like to draw attention to one area that I feel is rather deficient , the area of social policy . 
Subsidiarity must be seen to apply : it must be clear that we are not legislating where it is not necessary to do so . 
We must take action and the example should come from above . 
I would urge the Commission in future , when Parliament makes a legislative proposal in this way , to take it up , at least in the majority of cases if not in all of them . 
I have received five motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
We are getting one , two and a half years after the directive has entered into force . 
Prudence is called for once again . 
We are told above all to &apos; eat and drink without fear , you are protected by the label &apos; . 
We are linked by the Lomé convention and by the convention on commodities which the European Union has signed , with reference to cocoa . 
It is insulting for us to play semantic games about the definition of this word . 
What makes defending cocoa - producing countries an ideological matter , I ask you ? 
It has made ourselves as politicians and the EU as an institution look faintly ridiculous . 
I do concur with the rapporteur on one point . 
These charges would be used to finance the relevant installations up to 90 % . 
We should avoid becoming obsessed with the question of subsidiarity . 
We are proposing that the Union should itself sign up to the ECHR so that those rights inscribed in the existing Convention would form the solid core of the Charter . 
I would like to make one last remark regarding the necessity to establish a broad social basis and to enter into a dialogue with social organisations , even after completion of the charter . 
We will need to conduct this general discussion then too . 
This report must be a unanimous message from Parliament to ensure that the Council and the Convention respond to the expectations of petitioners . 
We are dealing with the content involving civil and political rights , and then we will deal with citizenship rights and economic and social rights . 
It will depend on whether the work is useful and can be incorporated into the Treaties . 
The charter must contribute to this . 
It is intended , rather , to say what Parliament expects of the convention . 
We must provide ourselves with the means to make it the founding element of European identity , allowing Europe to make the qualitative leap it needs in order to feel that it really does exist . 
We would like the Intergovernmental Conference , which is just starting , to keep the essential principle of respect for national democracies continually in mind . 
I am referring to it as a vessel because it is obviously still only a framework . 
This question was raised in that document too . 
I would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the two rapporteurs despite the fact that I do not agree with everything that they have set down and suggested . 
Society may be just , but it can not ever love . 
It must be taken by the European Council , when it decides on the legal force of the charter . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
I should like to remind you that I announced this text on 26 January when the Commission adopted its formal opinion and its proposals for the reform of the institutions . 
I did mention before this House our intention to outline and clarify some aspects of this opinion at a later date . 
We had identified five categories of exceptions to the general rule which we approved , according to which , within the Union , decisions would henceforth be taken by qualified majority vote . 
I must answer that it depends what you mean by &apos; great VAT modernisation project &apos; . 
A meeting was held on 2 March but , frankly , I think it is rather too early to be able to give you any further details . 
It does strike very much at the heart of what is perceived as the national ability to conduct one &apos;s affairs . 
I am thinking in particular of things such as the withholding tax , which it would have been quite unacceptable to have subjected to a QMV regime . 
I would like to start by thanking the Commissioner for his kind answer , although I find it to be completely insufficient . 
We have intervened in all corners of the world . 
We have signed up to the objective of eliminating all landmines worldwide in ten to fifteen years . 
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his reply which I find extremely satisfactory . 
We have taken a website that will enable us , I hope , to inform the NGO community and others more clearly about what is available . 
We intend establishing a multi - annual work plan . We will refer to that on our website . 
I would like the Commissioner to reassure me that , when the campaign is decentralised , information offices in the Member States will involve Members of the European Parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course . 
It must be left to the country concerned to determine how to implement the objectives set as quickly as possible . 
I am thinking particularly of sugar which can effectively constitute an additional resource for several of these countries . 
I would urge you to do so . I would ask you what you think we could do together to promote this type of action . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner to clarify his answer . 
I must point out however that , although the Commission intends to express this type of guideline , it will do so by means of a recommendation . 
We are going to present a communication on road safety , which you in this Parliament will receive shortly , and recommend a maximum limit of 0.5 mg . 
The services are looking at this and I hope that they will be ready in time for tomorrow . 
They have had more than 12 hours in which to correct the amendments concerned . 
We will try and make sure it is corrected by tomorrow . 
I should like us at some point , but not now , to debate the opportunities for creating framework legislation in this area . 
We should treat this seriously . 
It will be interesting to see if he sticks to his principles there . 
What will be the long - term consequences of that ? 
I have given the Commissioner notice of these questions . 
I am looking at Article 2(2 ) and I can not see that exclusion set out there . 
I did wonder some months ago whether to table amendments , which would suggest a less ambitious outcome , but which would perhaps be more acceptable to Member States . 
I would like to conclude by making the following comment : legislation on ceilings is , in actual fact , the counterpart of legislation on large furnaces , for which I also happen to be rapporteur . 
It can give us no confidence whatsoever . It is a messy political compromise and nothing more . 
We should support this report and give her our backing . 
We must increase energy efficiency , improve energy saving and promote regenerative energies whilst , at the same time , recognising that nuclear energy produces neither CO2 nor SO2 nor NH3 , volatile organic compounds or NOx . 
I will support it tomorrow in the vote and I hope that the majority of the House will do the same . 
We should be starting with the UN / ECE figures , with the Gothenburg protocol and revising them as is proposed by Mrs Myller in her report . 
We are making major efforts to add lime to lakes and wetlands . 
We will draft a recital which does not appear to restrict the Commission &apos;s right of initiative , for inclusion in our amended proposal . 
Allowance should be made for the fact that smaller Member States have less room to spread the load . 
We must maintain technical consistency . 
It would remove an essential obligation for Member States regularly to update emission inventories . 
I would like to know if the Commission is making these threats and , if it is , whether it feels that it has an entitlement to do so . 
What will happen with projects which are already under way and what will happen , above all , in those cases where a region does not receive any money from the Structural Fund ? 
I would ask that we make this point absolutely clear here . 
I would have liked to hear your answer first , but you have chosen to speak at the end of the debate . 
We are discussing something here of which most know the history . 
We do have this unfortunate system - it is what you call legislation , which has been adopted in this European Parliament with the consent of the Member States . It must be observed ! 
We will use the means at our disposal to ensure that they honour the commitments that they have entered into . 
You should carry it out if Member States do not act responsibly . 
You must stick to that . 
We are going to be increasingly faced with hard decisions on this . 
It will be a very good test of what our commitment to sustainable development really means . 
I will read the communication from the Commission very carefully , but perhaps you can help me to understand matters . 
They are given out to create jobs and to kick - start the regions . 
It would be sensible to re - examine and revise Directive 9243 to provide more certainty and clarity . 
I have received one motion for resolution pursuant to Rule 40 ( 5 ) . 
We would like to know how the presidency has dealt with this correspondence . 
These people must start to realise that the world is no longer a place where impunity is the rule . 
We have failed to spread the lessons and values learned from that conflict . 
We have failed to educate against the glorification of combat in our own communities . 
We must ask for some consistency between the countries of Europe if we want to make a genuine stand for human rights . 
It must prove itself to be a community of values . 
It must act preventatively within the scope of its foreign and security policy and its development policy and must react by applying sanctions , for example , by suspending assistance . 
I have received 4 motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 37(2 ) . 
This work has become even more important as time has gone by . 
No one can fail to appreciate the commitment found , for example , in this House . 
We must work more systematically to collect and evaluate data , information and background material . 
They should be clear and comprehensible and not consist of idle talk . 
Technology is developing and so too , therefore , must our instruments for the protection of human rights . 
The amendments have been carefully weighed up within the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy , and quite a few have been honoured . 
It would mean a great deal to me if this were to be accomplished . 
I would make two or three other very simple points . 
We must have it quickly and we must have comprehensive legislation . 
We have begun to discuss it adequately but we have so much further to go . 
I would like to draw your attention here to just three , regarding which my Group has been active . 
You can guess which &apos; applicant &apos; was invited for interview . 
We must teach our children about all of this . 
We should ensure that measures developed by the Commission have a specific children &apos;s dimension . We should ensure that there is somebody in the Commission with responsibility for child matters . 
I can give you two examples of this . 
We have seen the mayor of that city receive 75 % support in the elections there . 
The situation is becoming ever more critical , but the right to water also has to be seen as a human right . 
We must show leadership as must the media , educational institutions and the churches ; they have not shown such leadership in the past . 
We should intervene with the Security Council individually and collectively to ensure that medicines are delivered to the people . Shame on us for allowing the sale of arms and weapons to the Great Lakes region . 
We will have failed them unless we tackle racism and xenophobia in the European Union . 
I have subscribed to this practice in the Netherlands for some 25 years , starting with the South Moluccans . 
We are invited to achieve a more ethnically diverse workforce which will require , in the first instance , all staff to be identified by ethnic origin . 
The plane was surrounded by police guards and he was told not to step off the plane . 
We have talked about the defence of these human rights and I would now like to insist that if we proclaim human rights , it naturally follows that we must ensure that those rights can be exercised . 
We must start with ourselves if we want to build a world where everyone helps each other . 
I would like to be able to share with everyone my conviction that , in our countries , no one is a stranger . 
I would be most grateful if we do that right now . 
I did say clearly , at the start of voting time , that we would go as far as the motion for a resolution on the European Council in Lisbon . 
We should keep to what was decided . 
It should be pointed out that the European Parliament has taken responsibility for altering the very composition of chocolate by allowing the introduction of vegetable oils and fats other than cocoa butter . 
Some governments have got their Snickers in a twist trying to protect their chocolate industries . 
Who would have believed it ? 
Products should be put on sale , and it should be clear what they contain , but otherwise we must rely upon consumers &apos; own judgement . 
Consumers should find out for themselves what tastes best . 
It has taken another two and a half years for the Council to adopt a common position which is before us today . 
They will get their chance to pick up the gauntlet at the forthcoming Kyoto follow - up Conference in The Hague this November . 
It means protecting the natural environment on the ground too . 
This incineration generates polluting emissions of dust , metals and dioxins which must be controlled using a smoke treatment system . 
The rapporteur has proposed amendments to reinforce this proposal . 
These amendments could ensure that the directive is brought into line with technical and scientific developments and would allow the objectives to potentially be achieved by 2010 . 
We must move away from simple declarations of intent , no matter how positive they may be . 
Everyone is entitled to education , culture and health . 
Everyone is entitled to decent housing and an income which allows them to live honourably . 
We must declare that poverty will not be tolerated . 
Fraternity must guarantee the rights of the poorest . 
I would like to compliment the President on the wise decision to take these four reports together . 
What was happening 15 years ago in Austria was that Mr Haider was actually persecuting the Slovene - speaking minority there . 
It would be impossible to comply with a proposal of this type and I therefore ask Mrs Ludford to withdraw it so that we can vote in favour of her report . 
We should make better use of the expertise developed within these circles . 
We must overcome this and incite our governments to be European through and through . 
I am tempted for the sake of quality , and because I wish to participate and because I agree , to read two paragraphs , two proposals relating to two candidate countries . 
It is based on fundamental European values which , per se , vehemently oppose racism , xenophobia and antisemitism . 
We shall see whether , in the course of the Intergovernmental Conference , we can achieve a consensus that will allow us to make further progress on this matter . 
I should like it recorded that what Mr Pirker has said had nothing to do with the agenda . 
I will give the floor to Mr Schulz who wanted to raise a point of order on a personal challenge made in yesterday &apos; s debate . 
Some members are saying we should not fingerprint fourteen- to eighteen - year - olds . 
We are told that this is just a case of abstention but this is actually the norm as Members &apos; opinions are not being taken into account . 
I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and agreeing very strongly with the remarks he has just made . 
These factors are driving UK pig farmers out of business as more and more cheap imports are sourced by retailers and supermarkets in the UK . 
He has approached this matter with his usual conviction and great dedication . 
The procedure must be made clear in the basic legislative provision requiring to be amended by comitology . 
It will be automatically amended in the manner envisaged in the agreement with the Council . 
I would ask the Commissioner to reply as briefly as possible . 
Any country can disassociate itself from the declaration made by the 14 countries . 
I would like to explain that at national level this type of support is a matter for Member States , within certain legal limits laid down in the Treaty . 
I have received no letter from the President - in - Office , which confirms my worst suspicions about the obsessive secretiveness of the Council . 
I would be grateful if you could rephrase your question , Mr Nicholson , because I did not grasp what you were saying . 
You were saying that the Council is not alone in being a legislature that makes its decisions in secret . 
We might have been able to dispense with the Lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had Mexico not given us cocoa in the past . 
This agreement will enable Mexico to redress the imbalance of its one - way dependence on the USA to a certain extent . 
I should like to remind the House that 85 % of Mexico &apos; s exports go north and only 5 % come to Europe . 
It has been granted permanent observer status at the OECD and in 1999 it reformed its constitution to grant autonomy to its National Commission on Human Rights 
We have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow Member , who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate . 
We shall persist with developments in these areas but , when it comes to standards , we need to pursue further development . 
I should like to turn my attention first to the policy approach of the e - Europe initiative and to the approach taken by the Read report . 
We should hold our principle of equal opportunity up to the light of truth . 
It is being used to deliberately plan and implement a further massive restriction of fundamental rights at European level . 
It is being sold as an innovative policy at the same time as Parliament is arguing with other institutions for a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
We should set our aims higher than the Commission has done . 
I would urge Mr Liikanen to have a detailed discussion with Mr Nielson on that issue . 
We should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for . 
I should like to congratulate the Commission on its proposal and the rapporteur on her report and I should like to explain why I have praised you and why I should like to take you all at your word . 
We can take one of the leading roles in tomorrow &apos; s global information society , provided that we learn the script . 
We must allow the market , that is to say purchasers and vendors , to choose for themselves . 
We must increase competitiveness and the development of ideas in our part of the world , that is to say in Europe . 
The debate has been really illuminating and has shown the great interest and also the expertise of Parliament on this issue . 
I can report to you that this will be one of the main topics of a ministerial conference organised by the Portuguese presidency in Lisbon in early April . 
I would like to briefly respond to some items where the emphasis of the discussion has perhaps been a little different from the Commission document . 
These actions will result in increasing numbers of jobs and will thereby reduce the principal cause of social exclusion , namely unemployment . 
I would like to assure you that this action is not intended to intervene in an area that , the report rightly notes , is market - driven . 
We have sent a note in this regard , but nothing has been done about it , and so I would ask you now to investigate the matter . 
We could have a long debate about this but rather than get into a procedural wrangle , you are not , strictly speaking , entitled to move this . 
I would like to know whether this clause has the same meaning in his language . 
You have read the English version of the text , which is accepted by the overwhelming majority of those present . 
It might make you unpopular in the short - run but I think it would make you loved and admired in the long - run . 
We are fed up with constant changes to the agenda and postponements at short notice . 
It is going to be an interesting vote . 
The vote will be totally distorted . 
We will vote on these measures either this evening or on Friday . 
We have done so for years and we can be flexible one way or the other pretty much as we please . 
The rapporteur has stated that she agrees with your suggestion , i.e. with the President &apos; s suggestion . 
We have made this known in the individual votes en route to the report . 
We would emphasise the importance of the social dimension in the EU &apos; s activities but consider that social policy is mainly a question for each individual Member State to decide upon . 
This decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in Paragraph 6 . 
We are opposed to the introduction of sweeping new categories of eligibility for asylum , which would be open to abuse . 
I should like to say that Mr Haarder has made an exemplary effort to bring about a consensus . 
We must grasp these new opportunities . 
We must fight against pornography , against increasingly widespread child abuse , against male and female prostitution and against sex tourism , which inevitably leads to suffering on the part of children . 
This role has been downgraded for far too long , although it is a key role . 
Mention must be made of serious incidents which have recently occurred in the occupied territories of Western Sahara , where pro - referendum demonstrations have been suppressed by the Moroccan authorities . 
Diseases must be kept at bay , the landmines littering the area must be cleared and re - housing schemes must be established . 
I have heard that the international community has put one hundred million on the table in the meantime , and that the EU has made a disproportionate contribution to this . 
It would be good , of course , if these debts were actually suspended , for then the Mozambique government could use the funds for this purpose . 
Constraints have been identified in this terrible disaster case . 
They must be investigated and the guilty must be called consistently to account . 
We have condemned the Russian action over the recent months in five separate resolutions . 
It would make a great deal of sense if the proposals by the German government were adopted by all the Member States . 
The campaign has started and anyone who disagrees with him needs to keep their mouths shut . 
It has become clear over the last two years that the media are being increasingly sidelined . 
They have made sure that Iraq has no long - range missiles that could threaten its neighbours . 
It must be made clear that , at the end of the United Nations mission , the embargo will be lifted - not just suspended , but lifted once and for all . 
No one will consider rebuilding Iraq if it is obvious that there will only be four months of stability , and that , after that , the embargo could be reimposed without fresh , credible reasons . 
We have attempted to besiege Iraq and to force the Iraqi people to change their government through the embargo and we have not succeeded , even though we have been trying for seven and a half years . 
I am concerned , as are the other speakers , at the plight of the people in Iraq . 
I would like to see either the European Union or the USA acting as an honest broker , as a mediator , to try to find an end to this dispute . 
We must find a solution . 
They must come to the negotiating table . 
I am convinced that international mediation is desirable and necessary . 
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m. , except on the situation in Iraq , as agreed . 
We must be careful not to give him an excuse . 
I would call on the 15 Environment Ministers , including the 6 Green Ministers , to show courage and to grant the African elephant full protection once again on 30 March during the Environmental Council . 
We will approach the Indian authorities along the lines suggested , and continue to do all we can to support and further the objectives of CITES . 
We have withdrawn our motion for a resolution for the same reasons , i.e. the debate scheduled for April . 
We have noted your remarks . 
I am concerned specifically with the terms " reliable ethnic data " and wonder whether Mr Sylla could perhaps table an oral amendment relating to this notion of " ethnic data " ? 
I would ask for this to be considered . 
You have touched on a fundamental problem which has to do with the way in which this has been entered on the agenda . 
We would have preferred a statement in keeping with the European Parliament &apos; s resolution on Austria . 
The differences are being ironed out at every level , for the Haarder report also supports equal rights for same - sex couples and the traditional family . 
We would emphasise , however , that we can not support the means of combating racism and xenophobia that the report recommends . 
This report would undermine rather than improve race relations . 
I am thinking particularly of the Roma , who face intolerable discrimination in several Central and Eastern European countries . 
It would be warranted , however , for such internal ECB transfers , which will not be included in detail in the Eurosystem &apos; s weekly consolidated financial statements , to be disclosed a posteriori . 
This call must be issued in the form of a regulation by the EU Council . 
The reasons are set out in detail and time is already marching on , but allow me to say that we consider that this increase is needed . 
These Members were elected just like me and every other Member in this House and we have to accept that fact . 
I would ask that my attendance be recorded in yesterday &apos; s Minutes . 
I would ask the parliamentary services to look into why it was left out . 
I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the support and collaboration they have given me at all the meetings we have held . 
The scheme was established in 1989 when the growing area of grain legumes was reduced at the expense of corn , which was already suffering from overproduction . 
We were assured , I am bound to say by a rather complacent Economic Secretary , who has now become the First Secretary , that all matters were proceeding in an orderly fashion . 
I should like to read out the statement made by Commissioner Barnier after that meeting : 
I was talking to councils in Wales yesterday . 
The island has taken its case against the British Government that it feels is treating it unfairly , to the High Court in London . 
He has recommended that the Commission and EUROSTAT should look again at this particular problem . 
I have listened carefully to this interesting debate and I will transmit all the questions which were raised here to my colleague , Mr Barnier , and he will respond accordingly . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 March 2000 . 
It may be worse yet . The next few hours will tell . 
I should like to correct it because the meaning has been distorted . 
It should read " will never distance " . 
I did approach the Iranian government , but received no response . 
You can count on me , therefore , to try again . 
I must say I find it extremely sensible , since the debate is to take place shortly and we are awaiting details which will enable us to give a more informed opinion on this very important issue . 
I have said on a number of occasions , including in this Parliament , that the primary consideration must be the protection of the public . 
I can assure you , Mr Campos , that the interaction that takes place at Commission level on these issues puts a high premium on food safety . 
Tests will have to be available to ensure that the systems that are put in place are monitored and working properly . 
I am hoping that this issue will be dealt with by the Agriculture Council in or about June , which will meet the concerns that are raised by the question . 
I have negotiated with many people from the United States administration . 
I have kept you informed promptly and with complete transparency throughout all this time . 
They have given it to us so often . 
I have tabled an amendment to the effect that they should definitely withdraw the complaint . 
It should be quite possible and right to go beyond them . 
We must offer an opportunity for dialogue and understanding , but in order for this to happen , the United States must agree to adopt certain approaches . 
We must go further . We must reach an agreement within the ICAO , and to achieve this , the support and cooperation of the United States is essential . 
I have allowed you the extra minute since you are chairman of the Maghreb delegation . 
We have heard it said that the stakes are vast , and it is worth repeating . 
The regulation must be amended and Commission staff must be increased . 
We shall have proposals to present to Parliament to this effect in order to ensure better examination of the files . 
This visit has been an exceptional demonstration of the understanding that can be achieved between all parties . 
I would like to mention the fisheries agreement between the European Community and Morocco , which expired on 30 November last year . 
It would be good if the representatives of the Commission and the Council present here today could answer this question . 
No consideration is given to development policy or foreign policy measures to deal with the reasons which make people flee and emigrate from these regions . 
No one would deny that this is an area where countries can gain from mutual collaboration but , of course , there is nothing new about cooperation among our home countries in the asylum field . 
It could be that the European Union , with its historical links , could act as that intermediary . 
We have heard less about the hospitals and schools being destroyed and of torture by Sri Lankan government troops . 
We shall have similar positions to fill in individual areas in the coming years and it makes perfect sense to consider organising and centralising these activities . 
We must bear in mind that there are also new challenges in the legislative area since the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force . 
We are dealing with a Commission which has a joint research centre . 
We are dealing with 15 Member States which have their own national resources and , as a legislator with equal rights , Parliament must naturally make use of its opportunities here . 
We shall have to monitor the Court of Justice very closely . 
I must emphasise that the amenability of the rapporteur , whom I congratulate , has enabled a broader consensus to be reached . 
They may be farmers in the European Union , who obviously want appropriate remuneration , a just reward , which they have earned , for producing healthy food . 
It is becoming apparent that there are people on the one side who are making promises left , right and centre and raising their estimates . 
We have stretched out our hand . 
She has said that we are prepared to work openly with the Council and the Commission . 
We are working on assumptions when we present this report from Mrs Haug . I am just referring to the Haug report not to Mr Ferber &apos; s. 
We will be determined to do our best for the Balkans and Kosovo but , at the same time , we will be realistic for those other policies which Parliament considers to be important . 
We must endeavour above all to include small enterprises . 
I would be pleased to see new initiatives in this area . 
We did have a statement by the Commission for 2000 - 2006 and that set out certain perimeters within which agricultural spending would be provided for . 
I should like in particular to thank the two rapporteurs on behalf of the Commission . 
I should like to comment on your question as to how great an effect the European budget has on employment . 
It has been pointed out on several sides that demands are being made on the Commission . 
I should like to stress at this point that the figure or estimate of EUR 5.5 billion for the period up to 2006 is being analysed , and rightly so . 
I should like to point out in this context that EUR 4.5 billion was channelled to the regions from the budget of the European Union between 1991 and 1999 . 
I should like to comment now on the financing proposal , especially the point relating to redeploying funds from the agricultural policy area . 
I would be obliged if you could take note of this and not say that we are letting a genie out of the bottle in the area of agricultural market policy which will then jeopardise all expenditure . 
I can assure you that the Commission will again be at your constant disposal so that we can achieve a positive result . 
It must be possible to punish offenders , even if abuse is not a punishable offence in the country in which it is committed . 
This protection must be guaranteed in both theory and practice . 
We must awaken citizens &apos; consciences where our children are concerned . 
It must be noted that the proposals made have only been implemented in part . 
We should look towards the good example set by Sweden . 
This assessment may provide the opportunity to focus on suppressing child sex tourism , and to draw up an initial status report . 
We would like you to evaluate the reports which you receive impartially . 
Companies must assume liability for damage to consumers without fault . 
We should be aware that uniformity can stifle innovation and prevent adaptation to local or national circumstances and problems . 
It would be dangerous to stifle this by uniformity . 
I would argue quite strongly that we have achieved a very fair and reasonable balance of interests . 
Consumers will be the ones to lose out , if a flow of competitive and innovative products is stifled . 
We are talking about an objective responsibility and therefore the burden of proof imposed on the victim must be made as light as possible . 
We must make a distinction between these causes . 
We have decided that the share of renewable sources of energy should rise from 6 % to 12 % . 
I should like to ask you , Commissioner , to build a bridge with agricultural policy , to enter into an alliance . 
No one can be punished for failing to keep to the quotas . 
I keep coming back to this : without sanctions , this joint energy policy , because in the final analysis that is what it is , will not function . 
This directive should be solely directed towards supporting new renewable technologies that are not yet commercially viable . 
It would be virtually impossible to quantify these subsidies which have been embedded in the industry over decades of generator construction . 
I shall finish by saying that the report by Mr Turmes , on which this House is about to vote , addresses my main concerns sufficiently . 
I must point out that Mr Turmes &apos; s report fully concurs with these views . 
Support must be given to renewable energies . 
I have done what I had to do , which was to send it to each Group Chairman concerned . 
This system is suspected of intercepting telecommunications beyond the bounds of any legal framework of justice and home affairs activities . 
I must thank you for having invited the Council to speak on this issue . 
It must be stressed that Europol does not have powers of investigation and does not carry out work of an operational nature . 
I will clarify this for you . It is the responsibility of each Member State to send data to Europol . 
It must be stressed that Europol can not , on its own , determine if the data sent by a Member State has been properly gathered . 
I will try to cover most of them . 
We must put this subject on the agenda of the next session of the World Trade Conference . 
I should like to say that what I have heard this morning from both institutions gives rise to more questions than answers . 
Legislation must be updated and harmonised and supervisory authorities simplified and consolidated and , of course , new technologies are needed to protect telecommunications from disproportionate and unjustified interference . 
I should like to quickly make the following points . 
I did do so and I do so again . 
We will keep Parliament constantly informed of developments in this respect . 
No companies have contacted the Commission on that issue . 
I have received four motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
It would have been helpful if whoever was giving vent to his indignation had taken the trouble to read the patent . 
I have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
Voices have been rightly raised in this very House against the dictatorship that holds sway in Tunisia and the one that continues to rule in Morocco , even if it is more moderate . 
Another consequence would be to reduce the pressure of migration . 
The partnership has failed to meet the expectations raised by the countries participating in the conference . 
We are hoping for synergy in the coordination of the interregional and transnational cooperation programmes , and for coordination between the Interreg and MEDA programmes . 
We must condemn these practices . Our respective states must take the necessary measures to prosecute and sentence those found guilty . 
Technology is proceeding faster than individual governments can legislate . 
It is established and legitimate practice in both academic and biopharmaceutical research to genetically manipulate human cells in tissue culture . 
It is misleading to suggest that the object of this patent is to genetically manipulate humans . 
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 30 March 2000 . 
Nothing has been done although there was an instant reaction from the Commission when the fact that 12 million people are under threat of famine in Ethiopia came to public attention . 
I would hope that happened in the European Parliament . 
One can form one &apos; s own opinion and keep quiet . 
You will have to forgive me if I tell you what Mr Berlusconi said , but I think it is difficult to judge if you do not know the content . 
I would have hoped that such a small matter as this would be sorted out . 
I will attend to it this week . 
I can assure you that the Quaestors are working on it . 
Reports have been shifted around and time slots have even been changed . 
I would prefer it if we could hold the debate on Ethiopia when the Council is present . 
We have been short of a definition until now . 
We have required within our report that European nation states should have action plans for dealing with the abuses which take place . 
We have tried to reach a compromise in our deliberations . I believe that we have managed to do so . 
We have had nothing but positive contributions . 
Europol will be involved , as will the candidate countries . 
We must combat poverty and intolerance and take this as our starting point . 
The perpetrators are using the most up - to - date technology to distribute their material and in the Internet they have found a medium which is more suited than any other to acting anonymously . 
Paedophiles are limited only by their own technical capability or the equipment which they can afford . 
This instrument must be such as to make it possible to address States directly in order to urge them to pass on information , but also to issue orders so that the networks can be dismantled . 
Interpol has acknowledged having a file of 800 photos . 
The Internet makes exchanging pictures easier , and it is this we should be discussing . 
We have had discussions with representatives from Europol with respect to trafficking in women and children , and they say that they have two reports . 
We must consider how we in the Member States are to take care of the children that have been victims of this crime and whose photographs are on the net . 
We should bear in mind that the key role must be played by self - regulation and by the individual responsibility of those who use the Internet . 
It will need to be investigated exactly how much more this would cost , and the Committee on Budgets has decided unanimously that we expect the outcome of this investigation before 31 March 2001 . 
They would have much preferred this than to have been sent thousands of kilometres away to distant countries . 
It would be a serious mistake to exclude the very women and men who often , with their invaluable experience , make good the omissions of the State , from the process . 
We must develop policies which are coherent with both funds . 
Financing must be ensured up to 2004 . 
I can understand why proposals were put forward to consider the number of refugees in relation to the overall population in each Member State . 
The aim has been to ensure the financial integrity of electronic money institutions and to help to cultivate an environment which fosters the development of this new means of payment . 
We may recall that the European Consumers &apos; Association , which represents the consumers of the European Union , carried out an extensive survey of charges for cross - border payments only last year . 
Scandals can have a cleansing effect . 
What does cause a problem for us , however , is the way in which the Council has robbed the Commission of the ability to act immediately in case of an emergency . 
We should join forces with the Commission against the Council and move towards a conciliation procedure . 
This report has been adopted unanimously in committee and will therefore be supported by all groups . 
We must use the existing facilities and use them efficiently . 
It would be nice if he could be made aware of this , but that is probably unlikely . 
It has submitted to us a common position in which the option to have a safeguard clause will actually be taken away from the Commission . 
I am thinking in particular of the problem of allergies . 
It must be acknowledged that , in the course of time , technological need has always been the predominant criterion . 
I shall mention them quickly . 
Others should be used far less widely . 
I would like to draw your attention to some of the issues that have been raised in this opinion of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy . 
I would ask the rapporteur in question , and the representative of the Commission also , to reply to these questions . 
Something was added at the end , but I do not think that this is the way forward and I would like to find out from the Commissioner whether he intends to do anything about this in the future . 
We have asked for a hierarchy of standards in the IGC report and we have also mentioned this elsewhere . 
It does mean , however , that food safety must be at the top of the agenda . 
We would prefer to strike out recital 5 and we shall so vote . 
The amendments proposed do not sufficiently take into account the opinions of the Scientific Committee for Food and the technological need that exists in some Member States . 
I have come to the conclusion that he is correct and that some effort should be made to deal with this . 
I would have strong reserves about approaching a particular problem in that way and therefore we should give full regard to the opinions of Scientific Committees . 
I should say that the impurity of ethylene oxide did not prevent the Scientific Committee from concluding that this cellulose is safe for use . 
I would ask you , therefore , to be a little more circumspect before rejecting all the amendments out of hand , since I can also claim to have made a scientific study of the situation . 
I have gathered a number of opinions , I have read the texts , and I can tell you that you are going too far in sweeping aside the amendments we are proposing . 
He should be quite clear about that procedure within our Group . 
I should like that to be corrected . 
I should like to have some assurances that the Council will be represented at a sufficiently senior level to offer the respect which this Parliament traditionally offers when these sorts of visits occur . 
We can leave this until next month . 
I should like to come now to the question of where the shortcomings which we must clear up lie . 
It has been clearly stated that our own , previously public , competition criteria have been broken for certain positions in order to lever certain persons into those positions . 
We have come to the conclusion that Parliament is in an extremely difficult position , for which the Council is mainly to blame . 
We have stipulated in the resolution that the Commission will have two years to solve this and I have been given assurances that this should be possible . 
We have decided to give the discharge on three conditions , and the conditions are clearly spelt out . We hope that by 15 August those concerned will give us the information that is requested . 
I am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the EIB or the European Investment Fund , because that would be a better way of using the money and resources . 
I would like to have these questions answered . 
We have translated this criticism into a number of very concrete questions , answers and proposals in order to make drastic changes to the policy as it is being adopted now and will be adopted this coming year . 
I would like to underline the confidence we have in the Commission and all its Commissioners . 
I should like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for this resolution and also for the deadline attached to it . 
We shall have to debate this . 
We have had everlasting problems , of course , with the buildings , often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the Council . 
We are voting for postponement on many accounts . 
We can see that the new Commission is making an effort , but the 1998 discharge is at issue here and we must take it very seriously . 
We must re - establish confidence and that means that , as a committee , we must make a critical examination of the 1998 budget . 
We will try to find a formula which will make it clear that we are talking about the COCOBU . 
We have seen an express reluctance to hold those officials to account who are responsible for the circumstances open to criticism . It is not that there are no rules . 
You can ask for access to information , but if you do not get it then you have to start applying a certain rigidity and postpone discharge . 
I would like to illustrate this with a recent example . 
I would like to emphatically lay the blame for Parliament &apos; s bad image with those who have always had a majority . 
We must think very hard about this so that we can actually restore the citizen &apos; s confidence . 
I would like to thank all rapporteurs , but also the Committee on Budgetary Control , for all their hard work . 
He is blaming us for playing a party - political game . 
I should like to explain what the ECHO case is about . 
We must act in such a way that EU property is treated with the same respect as other property . 
What has happened to this investigation , why has it not got under way , and what is going to be done about it ? 
I would like to single out one point from among these questions and requests . 
I would ask the Commission to reconsider its position . 
We have asked Members of Parliament to volunteer to follow budget lines . 
We are having problems and we are having problems in finding out who is the right person ; the people we talk to are not clear what their responsibility is , what information they should be giving us . 
A start would be a list of who is responsible for what in which budget lines of each committee . 
I would ask the Commission to pay more attention to this aspect . 
You will be aware that the Leonardo programme has played an extremely important role in the events which have led to the previous Commission resigning from office . 
It would be very useful if the Commission were to release more information to us and give us the reports we ask for . 
I should like to point out once again in this context that the Commission has passed all the confidential reports requested to the rapporteur , or rather to the Committee on Budgetary Control . 
No one must be able to hide behind centralised financial control . 
It has been clearly stated that the objective must be to reduce the error rate and I can only agree with this . 
I would be glad to comply with this request because I think it too helps clarify matters . 
We must utilise all the preventative and restrictive means possible to combat such phenomena . 
Some people will retort , as they often do , that it has always existed and will always exist . 
I would like to thank Parliament , before this House , for its encouragement , but also for the new ideas that it has given us during these debates . 
We have accumulated the necessary resources and I now expect appropriate measures to be taken . 
The connection must be made between the dissemination of modern communication techniques and the implementation of sustainable development . 
These matters are going nowhere , and integrating the financial markets without fiscal regulation at European level is still tantamount to establishing a two - speed Europe . 
It is trying to pretend that it welcomes the outcome because it is largely liberal and concentrates upon the liberal market aspects . 
I am talking about the request to the Commission that it contemplate , for 2001 , a coordinated strategy in the legislative field . 
We must review the &apos; Best Business Impact &apos; initiative . 
She was attacking nothing less than the foundations of western capitalism , the engine which has delivered wealth and success undreamed of by earlier generations . 
It may have been appropriate for the Kremlin in the 1960s but it is totally out of place in 21st century Europe . 
We have listed a few problems . 
It has taken socialists a very long time to get this far and we are pleased that they are nearly there . 
This intention was formulated a long time ago . 
I would like to list three elements which are lacking in my opinion . 
You must understand that this is a network . 
I have received eight motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I would like to highlight some significant measures adopted by the summit . 
It will add a new strategic and global dimension to the existing relationship between Africa and Europe and will bring that relationship to the same level as that we already have with Asia and Latin America . 
We can see that education will deliver , it will stimulate the economy , it will offer opportunities to control population and increase health awareness . 
We have proposed an international organisation , with an intergovernmental high - secretariat of the Mediterranean . 
We must go much further , much further than mere cooperation with development , which , by definition , is an unfair form of cooperation . 
I would like to praise the Portuguese Presidency , because they could have quite easily opted out , or it could have quite easily dragged on for a while longer , but they took the bull by the horns . 
They should become the norm . 
I would like to clarify a few points . 
I have discussed AIDS in Africa with President Mugabe . 
We have spent EUR 150 million on this important activity . 
I have been frustrated at our slow and cumbersome procedures ever since I have arrived at the Commission last autumn . 
We will present our proposals in the next few weeks . 
I have dealt with that point earlier in my remarks . 
We will keep in touch with them . 
I am looking forward to what is called a full and frank exchange with Parliament on those issues . 
I should like to elaborate on the point which my colleague Nirj Deva mentioned . 
I am thinking again of the role of ECHO . 
It would be challenging politically , to get up and make a speech in favour of incoherence . 
It would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point . 
I shall be setting out the figures for our actual disbursements of food aid in Ethiopia and Eritrea . 
We have managed to increase our ability to deliver humanitarian assistance . 
I can inform you that Question Time will last an hour . 
I would like to insist on this point because I feel that there is concern among consumers that the creation of the single market is resulting in less importance being attached to product quality . 
No applications have been filed . 
I should like to explain to the honourable Member what my feelings are in this matter , not just the legal aspects . 
The women are forced into prostitution by threats and violence , and the Albanian pimps often pretend to be Kosovars in order to acquire refugee status . 
I am going to ask you to be brief and I am going to be brief . 
We have examined this carefully . 
I should like to inform the honourable Member that an analysis has shown that it takes approximately one and a half years to convert commitment appropriations into specific contracts . 
It has cost an ordinary citizen , who has made a business out of horses , an incredible amount of money because Swedish associations have not been willing to approve his stallion . 
It was explained this morning at the beginning of the sitting , we have accepted certain rules and we have skipped questions when the authors have not been present . 
It has been gradually committing itself to implementing or to adopting a huge range of institutional and legislative changes . 
I should like to list a few examples . The Kurdistan Democratic Party has been exposed to attack since 20 February . 
It was maintained that HADEP was supporting and helping the PKK which has opted for peace rather than war . 
It will be the task of the European Commission and the Council to strengthen their commitment here . 
I would like to ask both the Council and the Commission to see things as they really are and not as they appear to be . 
I would like to add two or three minor points . 
I can tell you that the Commission is not carrying out an assessment even now . 
I should like to close by saying that we are still just right at the beginning . 
This reply must be given this year and must refer clearly and unequivocally to what we expect of Turkey and must tell us exactly what Turkey intends to do . 
The lobbying has become quite intense in the last few weeks . 
I shall single out the points I think are most important . 
We shall be voting in favour of a situation in which those who release genetically modified crops into the environment are held fully liable under civil law . 
We are awaiting a more general proposal from the Commission on product liability and safety . 
They are distinguished by the fact that they demand the impossible , knowing full well that these demands can not be met and can therefore block the release of GMOs in general . 
We must address those very real issues . 
I would urge colleagues to accept my group &apos;s amendments on liability insurance , GMO contamination and the ban on antibiotic - resistant genes . 
Consumers are demanding the strictest controls and will be satisfied by nothing less . 
We must be careful , however , that we do not now just sit back in the belief that we have finished our work . 
We have selected an authorisation procedure which is more restrictive than its American equivalent , and this will of course be significant in terms of our ability to hold onto the best companies and researchers . 
We must reject the proposal that the entire liability for any damage should be shifted onto whoever has released the GMOs into the environment . 
It must be seen in that context . 
Labels must be easy for consumers to understand , which is why the information needs to be kept to a minimum . 
We shall have problems explaining this to consumers . 
I am thinking in particular of the compulsory labelling system which was drawn up in France together with livestock farmers and distributors , which has been in force since 1996 . 
This system has proved very effective . 
It has made it possible to restore consumer confidence . 
The amendments will be adopted . 
I have tabled an amendment to the effect that the slaughterhouse &apos; s authorisation number should not be shown on the label . 
We must take account of how the procedures will be applied in practice . 
Consideration must be given to the pasturing lists which are already in use and which take account of this situation in order to avoid forcing additional unnecessary administrative costs on farmers . 
We must put our own house , our own part of the world , in order . 
I am convinced that the subject of beef labelling is no mere technical issue . 
I would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label . 
I should like to see that go on the label . 
We have fought for years within the European Union to achieve a single market and now we are renationalising that market . 
I should like to start with the Commission &apos; s views on the first 44 proposals . 
I would point out in this respect that the Committee on Agriculture has recommended that they be introduced on 1 January 2002 . 
This idea may look simple on paper , but it is in fact extremely complicated to administer and , more importantly , to control . 
I would like to underline that although the Minutes mentioned specifically the EPP Group , it is in fact not the only group to have acted in this way . 
They are tabled by different members within that group taking different positions and therefore can not possibly be a group position . 
We must examine and vote on the report during this part - session , because it is not a matter of voting for the two rapporteurs but of voting for the European Parliament &apos; s opinion . 
I am participating , on behalf of Parliament , in the tripartite dialogue on the budget to set the budgetary guidelines . 
I would like to raise two points . 
The delegations are divided into those which want to keep the informality of this undertaking and those which want the process to be enshrined in the Treaty . 
It is measured by the degree of legitimacy . 
We must create a fully democratic institutional fabric . 
We must adopt a more positive approach . 
We should like to have it in tomorrow &apos; s. 
We would like to make three points . Firstly , the active recognition of the role , protagonism and participation of the regions in the process of European construction which began 50 years ago . 
I will repeat this to Mrs Frassoni in Italian some time . 
We have heard this before . 
They should inspire us all to roll up our shirt sleeves . 
I am convinced that this transformation of the EU into a federal state is a blind alley in every way . 
A comparison might be made with the United States in which the one chamber in a two - chamber system has proportional representation , while representation in the second chamber is the same for all constituent States . 
I would be keen to hear the Council &apos; s and Commission &apos; s opinion on this . 
This document does include a solid foundation for the Union , namely a cooperative of independent states , in which the national democracies enjoy the highest level of legitimacy . 
I would urge you to address this matter in the Bureau . 
I can inform you , on the basis of my experience , that you could have completed that in three minutes . 
Some Members had left the Chamber , others remained . 
I should like to congratulate my colleague , Mrs Evans , for setting up this marvellous debate and getting this superb result today . 
We must do everything possible to reduce the number of vehicles carrying dangerous goods along the roads of Europe to a minimum . 
The argument has been made that this issue should instead be covered by horizontal legislation . 
The directive should take a clear stand and insist that the use of these marker genes is stopped now . 
Industry should pay and face the consequences of its actions , not the man - on - the - street . 
This system should enable any potential threats to human health to be tackled early and effectively . 
They are told off for living too long , whereas the real problem is that their contributions have been wasted . 
These thoughts are reflected in our votes and the amendments tabled . 
She must realise that being President of the European Parliament does not make her the leader of the majority . 
This integration will create much more stability , as well as the legal certainty which Mr Colom i Naval , the permanent rapporteur for the financial perspectives , spoke of this morning . 
Cooperation should be more flexible and each Member State must retain a Commissioner . 
We must reaffirm that it is our Parliament &apos; s prime and absolute task to represent the people and the peoples of Europe in all their diversity . 
It would be wrong to strip away the rules of the game which have brought us so much success to date . 
It would be better to seek a compromise acceptable to all , as in the past . 
We have held large public debates in the Netherlands and have done a great deal of groundwork . 
We must strike a balance . 
We have seen that matters of taxation , for example , have become stumbling blocks . 
We were puzzled about what Mr Gama said , in his initial intervention , on the current state of the work in the IGC . 
We must realise that , notwithstanding the crisis situations which now exist , the international community has taken objective action in response . 
We must remember this , now that the crisis in Ethiopia is occurring again due to drought . 
We must be aware that this situation , which is in itself extremely serious due to the drought , is currently being made worse precisely because of political and military circumstances which are hindering the distribution of aid . 
A meeting was held yesterday in Brussels of a group of experts specifically to analyse the best ways of tackling this situation . 
I am standing in for my colleague , Commissioner Nielson , who would have liked to have been able to respond himself . 
I was speaking in similar debates then , tackling similar crises in the Horn of Africa . 
They will be making recommendations on our future efforts . 
This quantity should be sufficient to meet immediate needs . 
We will continue to devote our full attention to this crisis until it is over , and our people in ECHO on the ground will continue to work tirelessly to get help to where it is needed . 
They will have our unstinting assistance . 
We must watch the situation in Eritrea and balance humanitarian aid there , if required . 
We must have action and we must have action decisively and urgently . 
These issues do matter to the European continent for a whole range of reasons , even ones which relate to the very safety and stability desired for the European continent . 
I would like to inform you that pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure , I have received five motions for resolutions . 
I would like to make a general comment regarding the Conference . 
Everyone was waiting with bated breath for the moment when the Commissioner would produce the amount . 
I would call on the Commission , and Europe has more or less pledged to use the same scale , to take the 3 to 4 % really seriously and expand it . 
Who will ensure that all these tasks are carried out promptly and efficiently ? 
I would like to give the Commissioner a word of advice . 
It would seem far more logical to give this leading role to the European Commission , notably Commissioner Patten , to implement this Stability Pact promptly and efficiently . 
I should like to refer briefly to the new regulation . 
I must clarify , however , that the Council considers that , without Serbia , our common efforts will be incomplete . 
We must be aware that overall stability in this region can never be complete when one country in the region represents a factor of instability . 
I should like to take up a subject mentioned neither in the Commission &apos; s announcement nor in the report and so run the risk of its being said that I am operating at too low a level . 
What is needed here is a powerful response from the European Union . 
We are losing a great deal in the way of credit and respect in this region , and this respect and credibility are fundamentally even more important than the promises of funding that are made and then not kept . 
We must be consistent , as I will remind the Council when we come to discuss the budgetary issues . 
We must find the courage to take this step . 
It might be interesting to meet with the chairmen of the three Working Tables to discuss these projects ; maybe the Committee on Foreign Affairs could see to this . 
I would include this among the priorities I mentioned before , because investments will also be affected if this level of organised crime is maintained . 
It will continue to monitor this situation in Turkey as it develops and to act accordingly . 
We have come to believe it ourselves and we claim to represent the world - wide moral conscience . 
I would like to ask whether you can be more specific . 
It would be useful to remind him of his question . 
We must consider what happened in the past which was the cause of all this . 
I would point out , however , that the practical result is that today , with a few exceptions and despite everything , this situation is under control in terms of security . 
Complaints are submitted to the Member States whose Foreign Ministries are responsible for dealing with this type of question . 
I would be interested to know how the President - in - Office of the Council views the sale by auction of UMTS licences . 
It should be realised that pro - active policies do not work in some areas of the decision - making process . 
You have said that you are against quotas but in favour of references . 
I would like to ask the Portuguese Presidency : do you not think it would be highly appropriate to include a reference , in the form of a recommendation , in this respect ? 
We are trying at the moment not to create a European defence policy but rather a common culture of security allowing us to participate in crisis management . 
I would thank the Council . 
It is intended to guarantee the sharing of common values . 
What is included in these measures ? What is intended through these measures ? 
I would appreciate a reply to this . 
I shall conclude , Mr President , by pointing out that it amounts to saying that whilst we should not discard insurance products we must favour products which cover biometric risks . 
Views were put forward to the effect that only those systems which cover risks of this kind are to be included under the directive . 
We must take account of the great difficulties which exist within the Union with regard to the development of supplementary systems . 
It has been radically changed , however , by the adoption of amendments unreservedly supporting the mechanisms of capitalisation . 
It should be noted , by the way , that when the financial interests of the most powerful are involved , they are not slow to forget the principle of solidarity and to propose a single model . 
Those who are employed know full well , however , that a pension is theirs by right . 
It has been shown that it is precisely the compulsory nature of participation in collective pension funds which encourages these excellent results . 
The governments have squandered the funds and made off with the workers &apos; salaries . 
We must give to Caesar what is Caesar &apos; s and to God what is God &apos; s. 
I would like to extend warm thanks to Mr Kuckelkorn as rapporteur , for the huge effort he has made to achieve this report . 
We should keep intervention to a minimum . 
I would invite the Members of this Parliament to come up with any ideas as to how we could speed up and enhance the process . 
I have been waiting for a reply for one and a half hours now . 
These contradictions are seen by the citizen and by industry as burdens , as a lack of clarity in the message regarding the direction we are taking . 
We are starting with a European social model - which is a national model - and we are transforming the economic structure of that society . 
We have had examples such as the case of Venezuela where a strictly private system of public transport led to a profound social and political crisis in that country . 
He must make sure that from now on that a central objective is to help the internal market to move forward . 
I would like to highlight some of these points . 
Legislation must become simpler and must be written in a clear language . 
I would like to thank Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi and the other Members for their comments regarding specific inconsistencies between rules . This will enable the Commission to do something about this . 
I would like to oppose such reasoning which has no foundations in the real world . 
I have quoted what Mrs Berger said earlier about the hat which you can not simply take off . 
I would like to make a few minor observations regarding a European campaign which intends to teach Europeans languages from other communities . 
It could be said that the people who speak the same language share the same mentality . 
I would recommend that many projects be allowed since it is clear that cultural projects attract a lot of investment from Autonomous Regions and private initiatives which we can not afford to lose . 
We must look to those who will benefit most and those who are in greatest need and who might otherwise be socially excluded . 
I would recommend that we support this programme . 
We should include the best parts of those excellent initiatives in whatever programme we formulate in future . 
I would like to reassure all Members who have spoken about possible sanctions . 
This programme will encourage and consolidate the continuation and development of innovative actions at Community level and will help to improve the quality of the action undertaken on behalf of young people . 
We are being asked to change a regulation which entered into force a few months ago . 
It proposes removing any type of quota , and I would like to ask : does it intend in the future to remove the system of aid to producers ? 
We are giving the United States a marvellous present there ! 
It is divided and getting bogged down . 
We must talk about Iraq , Echelon , Serbia ; put everything on the table . 
No one should underestimate the adverse impact of export restrictions of this kind on the economies of export - oriented countries , and above all on related jobs . 
The challenge should be to reform the WTO . 
We have been down this road several times now and innocent companies and jobs are at risk and being threatened as a result of our failure to come to grips with this situation . 
I consider fixing the quotas for ten years to be a step in the wrong direction , and I believe that the Commission was already going the right way before this . 
I would like to give my reasons for this rejection area by area . 
I am telling you that I sincerely and honestly believe , after examining the position , that these amendments are admissible . 
It may have been a compromise between the ELDR and the EPP Groups , but it was not a compromise which we signed . 
We have put a large number of suggestions on the table . Clearly , not all of them will be taken up in the form which this Parliament has advocated . 
We must come back to this issue and put forward a proper proposal on a matter which is of direct concern to this House . I am confident that we can do that . 
I have voted against this report for almost the same reasons that Mr Corbett has voted in favour . 
It could work in variable geometry formations and its originality would have a powerful impact on the imagination . 
We have passed a resolution actually stating that the number of members of the Commission should be limited , as long as it is not . 
we must increase the use of qualified majority voting in the Council in order to avoid paralysis in decision taking , 
we must limit the number of Commissioners so that the Union &apos;s executive remains efficient 
They are targeted at the most innocent civilians , at the innocent people in societies , especially children , the most vulnerable . 
These resignations must cause the world community to reconsider the justification for the continuing sanctions policy and also the bombings . 
We must concentrate our efforts on convincing Iraq to implement the United Nations resolutions . 
I have shared their suffering with them . 
We must do everything possible to free this world from the nuclear threat . 
They were promised food in exchange for oil . 
We have committed ourselves to ask for the immediate lifting of sanctions . 
I would mention , too , that only two members of the Security Council voted for it , against the advice of the three other members who abstained . 
It must be remembered that the rules of war involve respect for civilians . 
I can tell you that fathers do not forget their sons , brothers do not forget their brothers , children do not forget their fathers ; nor should this House . 
We should remind Saddam Hussein that he must honour his obligations to the international community and we shall then honour our obligations to Iraq . 
We shall vote against Article 1 because once again it involves support for this statement and we could substitute a better statement of our own . 
It would be a great step forward if this succeeded . 
These people have been in prison for months under conditions we know virtually nothing about . 
We are continuing to insist that the international community be able to follow the proceedings from start to finish . 
We must make ourselves perfectly clear . 
We must remain intransigent on this point - human rights are not negotiable . 
They are being tried separately from the Moslems charged with them , which proves , if proof were needed , that this trial - which we are told is to be adjourned - is no genuine trial . 
They were put on trial for it and hanged . 
We are using diplomatic channels to try and ensure that the death penalty is not imposed or , more to the point , is not carried out . 
We must say to the Turkish Government that the policy which the country is conducting belongs to the past . 
He must be released immediately . 
People are being mercilessly persecuted , and religious freedom and freedom of speech are being curbed . 
It may be easier to act in defence of a person who has been wrongfully imprisoned , tortured or denied freedom of speech than in defence of an entire people . 
We must urge the Americans to act not only in this specific case , but to ensure that the death penalty is abolished in their country . 
One can think of a whole range of things . 
The population has chosen the path of development . 
Whites are being systematically intimidated and driven from their land through violent means to punish them for their support for the opposition and to buy the votes of the landless farmers . 
I would urge the Council and the Commission not to wait until it is five past midnight . 
We must reject these threats since they are absolutely unacceptable , but also because they are an objective threat to the dialogue which is so necessary to the resolution of this problem . 
I would like to sincerely thank those staff on behalf of my Group , and , I hope , on behalf of all of us . 
I can understand why you would have to take a head count . 
I would like to know exactly how many people you counted in the chamber today ? 
Everyone has agreed to this specific proposal . 
It would save time if you tried that first . 
We will have to evaluate whether it would be appropriate to amend the Rules of Procedure . 
We must encourage them to learn about others and about the European Union , as well as developing their own values , ideas and skills . 
I would like to remind you that this Parliament recognised Catalan as a European language and gave it a specific personality . 
These multinationals have seen their profits increase and their position consolidated . 
It would be logical if this power were extended to cover milk products . 
We must be logical and adopt the right use of power and the right course to do our job as well and as consistently as possible . 
I would be grateful if you could give me a couple of answers in a moment , when we consider whether this really is efficient . 
I did find it to be rather limited , on the basis of a desk study , but in view of the considerable interest in Europe there is every reason to continue the regulation . 
I have asked the Commission a number of questions in this regard . 
It has been an excellent signal from the EU to the heart of the people for decades now , and we have been able to get it across via children , school pupils , schools and homes . 
Children will switch to consuming non - nutritional products or , God forbid , we will move closer towards a situation where children will have to pay for milk consumed , thus discriminating against poor children from deprived communities . 
We must keep our milk farmers farming and the communities where they earn their living as viable entities . 
He has challenged us to look to the future , not just in relation to milk itself , but also to milk products and ways in which we can encourage children to drink milk . 
I would have preferred it if we had set milk prices lower so that we could abolish the bureaucratic milk quotas . 
We can expect an evaluation to be made this year by the Commission . 
It will be included in the Minutes . 
I will check if there are sufficient Members present who wish to check the quorum . 
We will have to establish whether there is a quorum . 
I would ask you , Mr President , to remember this and not to allow any MEP to leave the chamber while a count of those Members present is taking place . 
They have made their point , but now it is a matter of hunger in Ethiopia and we must vote on it . 
We have given everyone , including the Presidents , the opportunity to change the agenda if this was considered necessary . 
I would ask , rather , why it is that many Members voted in favour of working on Fridays in Strasbourg and yet are not in Strasbourg today . 
We will see how the point on the agenda unfolds . 
He must understand that Brussels means all of us together , as Commission President Prodi put it . 
We must take the psychology of the public into consideration and we must ensure that dialogue is established . 
They have analysed the problem , suggested improvements , but sadly little has been achieved . 
This situation is getting worse . 
We must make sure that the product is good first and then make sure that we advertise it effectively . 
We must make more and better use of it . 
We must emphasise the good - news stories of when we help the citizen . 
It is rumoured that BBC Scotland is about to remove its special correspondent from Brussels . 
I would like to express my heartfelt thanks for the commitment of those Members who openly support our action and are willing to further a new policy which will , of necessity , be innovative . 
We will be distributing information about this site to schools and local authorities . 
It would be a mistake for a policy to be managed solely by an advertising agency and not implemented at grass roots level in consultation with the citizens directly concerned . 
I would like to make it quite clear , once again , that the provision of information to citizens is not the exclusive responsibility of the Commission . 
I am convinced that this information service can work properly only if there is close cooperation between the three institutions in question . 
The parliamentarians must do that themselves , but we should all carry out Community promotion together . 
I would like this to be recorded . 
I did want to point this out because Parliament should not be mistaken for a kindergarten , and this is the feeling I will have when I leave this Chamber today . 
I am presiding over the meeting according to the agenda as it is before us . 
What has been done to regulate aircraft to date ? 
I have received four motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 42(5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
We would like to have these questions answered by the Commission . 
I would ask the Commission to speed up its process and not to wait for the legislative measure alone , but to set up other initiatives in order to bring people closer together . 
No research has been carried out into noise pollution from airports . 
The user should be fully aware of the actual costs of flying , including all environmental costs . 
It should be clear that , ideally , the actual environmental costs should be brought into the equation . 
We have tried to restrict the noise pollution for citizens . 
You have announced a strategy , which I welcome , for how the burden on particularly busy airports can be eased on the basis of objective data . 
The citizens are waiting for decisions to be implemented within the relatively near future . 
They are fighting to remain profitable and are even unable to make the necessary investments to reduce noise pollution . 
It has committed itself to precise deadlines . 
I would like to point out , however , that the voting will be by roll - call . 
The question has been put to you . 
I will come back to this point in a moment . 
I have received five motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 42(5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
It was offered on a voluntary basis in an exemplary manner . It is also a healthy and important expression of solidarity . 
We need have no qualms about making these proposals unconventional and bold . 
They have resulted in a sharp deterioration in the working conditions of foresters and lumberjacks , whose jobs are extremely dangerous at the best of times with the very highest accident rate which will continue to rise . 
They are calling for a decent salary which offsets the risks involved in their job . 
I would like to stress once again that we are dealing here with extremely long - term damage which may also have ecological implications . 
I have seen how the hurricane took the roof off our stable and I have seen the state our private woods are in . 
I would like to rid certain people here of the misconception that those who took the initiative for quorum counts are no longer present . 
This amendment was rejected by a large majority . 
We must enforce the Treaty and the European Parliament decisions . 
I have taken part in every Friday session for 21 years , even when I had another job and was not a delegate . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 14 April 2000 . 
I will do so when you consider it to be appropriate . 
I would ask Parliament &apos; s competent bodies to plan and draw up timetables a year in advance , although I understand that unforeseen circumstances may require subsequent changes . 
I can tell you that I have indeed received Mr Wiebenga &apos; s letter and that this matter is on the agenda for tonight &apos; s meeting of the Bureau . 
We must take account of the state of the European economy and also the possibilities created by the euro . 
You will see that it is a serious matter . 
I would regard that as the wrong approach . 
I should like to know whether , in the undertakings concerning aid that we gave at the donor conference , we made commitments in US dollars or in euros ? 
He proposes increasing the budget funding . According to Commissioner Schreyer today , that will not be very easy to achieve . 
The rapporteur has gone into the matter with great care and raised some very important issues . 
We must revise the TENs policy with a view to combining mobility with sustainability . 
We must remind the Member States that they have committed themselves to guaranteeing the financing , committed themselves to executing the plan . 
We should ensure that the financial resources spent on TENs are increased . 
We should see to it that we overcome any hurdles that are holding up 7 of the 14 Essen projects and leaving us exposed . 
It is based on the principle that public funds can not be increased , which is a moot point . 
We must make use of private companies because they profit from the infrastructures , but in the form of tax deductions and not by them having an interest in the capital of railway companies . 
I would consider the transport costs directive an appropriate legal basis . 
I have put one of these projects before the Transport Committee . 
We must choose the best because our transport policy , and therefore the EU , will also be measured by this small project . 
I would be most grateful to you , Commissioner , if , today , you could allay my concerns . 
We are talking about very far - off dates , but this does not mean that there is no will . 
These partnerships will be promoted in various ways . 
I will be presenting this review report and an initial proposal shortly . 
No mergers have taken place . 
It would be better still if the amendment on passengers &apos; right to information tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists were to be adopted in addition . 
I would ask therefore that we see a bit more environmental mainstreaming . 
We have reached the limits of growth . 
We must go further in this regard . 
We would like to have further information , particularly regarding the formation of this authority and we would like to know who would be responsible for monitoring it and by what means they would do so . 
It is estimated that air traffic will double in the next fifteen years . 
I must say to those people who said that employment in the sector would be reduced , that this has not been the case and that neither has the quality of work deteriorated in any way whatsoever . 
I would like to end by referring to some of the questions that have been raised . 
I have left two issues until the end , not because they are less important , but because I wanted to focus on them for a moment . 
Nobody would say - I certainly would not - that the fact that there are so few A1 or A2 women is due to an assessment of merit . 
He may be right that behind every great woman is a great man - there is a debate about that . 
I would like to add one more point which has not been discussed here but which I would like to bring up . 
One can enter into a large - scale discussion on the decisions taken today with regard to the nationalities of the people who have been moved , appointed or who have left . 
This discussion would be meaningless . 
I must enquire as to whether the panel actually interviewed the applicants , from whom the leader of the Institute for Future Studies was selected . 
They are progressing slowly but Rome was not built in a day and we must remember that . 
We were challenged by the Commission and by the Council to get this directive through as quickly as possible . 
The directive will go a significant way towards creating the framework which is necessary to provide the confidence that both business and consumers desire to maximise the potential of e - business . 
These uncertainties have been there for far too long because the Council needed nearly a year to determine its positions . 
We must give political support to this trend . 
It will show that Europe is open and is able to promote the Internet as a new form of communication and commerce . 
I would ask the Commission to take that very seriously . 
I will return to this in a moment , but on behalf of my staff , I would very quickly like to thank those Members of this House who have carried out the Commission &apos; s work . 
I would like to thank those Members of this House who , in turn , have thanked the Commission for the work it has done . 
The decision is justified , not only on account of the pressing nature of the directive , but also because the common position offers a sound and - I repeat - well - balanced compromise . 
Those amendments have been incorporated in the Commission &apos; s amended proposal and subsequently in the common position . 
I would like to inform Mrs Plooij that the directive on copyright in the information society will be discussed during the forthcoming Internal Market Council , which will take place on 25 May. 
I would like to point out that the introduction onto the market of pharmaceutics by means of advertising and sale , etc . is bound by strict national and Community rules . 
These repercussions must be monitored and , as I said , local production must not be jeopardised , for I believe that would be counterproductive . 
I am thinking particularly of areas where the desert is literally burying the productive land . 
We can stop people needing or wanting to come across if we can help them at the place where the problem has arisen . 
This regulation has enabled us to intervene in countries where there is deep conflict with serious abuses of human rights . 
A report is submitted which says that we must now extend the regulation . 
He has called for an extension of that programme by one year , although Mr Howitt has already pointed out that , in actual fact , we are already halfway through that year . 
It was decided as an interim step to propose an extension of the current regulation up to the end of the year 2000 . 
I can confirm that the new regulation is under preparation . 
I can assure honourable Members that I have taken account of the criticisms and of the aspirations that have been expressed during the course of this debate . 
The agreements were signed as early as June 1999 , ratified by the Swiss Parliament on 8 October 1999 , and tomorrow they will have reached the stage of ratification by the European Parliament . 
It will allow vehicles of 34 to 40 tonnes up to the year 2004 ; on the other hand , it will abolish the quotas accordingly . 
It was replaced by educational credits , which were , however , tied to residence in Switzerland . 
The aim should be that Parliament and the Council agree on priorities concerning the use of left - over margins , and that a procedure should be agreed in order to make any changes to these principles . 
Privatisation is making only slow headway and so far the country has not managed to entirely resolve the problem of integrating its Russian minority groups . 
It has become a ragamuffin state . 
No nation can live and function like that . 
We are taking stability eastwards , so that we will not have to import instability from there . 
She has got to grips with the issue in a comprehensive way and raised some important issues connected with it . 
It will be extremely hard for Moldova to overcome its huge problems without foreign assistance . 
I would remind you that the Economic and Financial Committee is not a normal committee . 
We must dress the wounds suffered by European industry , amounting to millions of euros ( though the movement of the euro may relativise such a figure ) . 
We must find the means to curb the globalisation of counterfeiting and piracy . 
We should establish conditions for how the resources concerned are to be used , but we should not have procedures which are so complicated that the EU is accused of inefficiency or that important reconstruction operations are delayed . 
I am thinking , for example , of pharmaceutical products and spare parts for cars . 
This consumer must be protected , so much is clear . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday , 4 May 2000 . 
I have contacted the Dutch authorities to express our deepest sympathy , both in a personal capacity and on behalf of the European Parliament . 
What matters is that we too discuss a proposal from the Bureau here and now . 
We must get a serious discussion under way about these matters . 
I am counting on you all , if only for the benefit of the public that attends our debates . 
The budget will stick to this principle . 
I should like to fully support the rapporteur &apos; s stance in this regard . 
I would like to add a few more points , however . 
We are living in an era in which the agricultural budget is extremely tight . 
It was agreed in Berlin that this can no longer be the case . 
This aid is going to stop very soon ; it comes to an end during this season . 
It would run counter to the peace clause which states that no new products may be incorporated into the support system . 
We will commission a study of this kind . 
Specialities have developed in the individual regions - such as hempseed oil and hemp beer - which help to enrich regional identity through the food chain . 
We should note that flax and hemp are environmentally - friendly crops . 
We should welcome , therefore , the expansion of industrial crop activity and the opportunities provided for diversification . 
It could be laid down in the law , in the interest of the environment , that dashboards for cars should be made of such and such products . 
We will try to find a solution here , so as to reduce the possible constraints which might arise . 
I can accept Amendment No 6 on hemp . 
I can accept Amendments Nos 24 and 33 for those instances when the farmer and the primary processor are one and the same person . 
I have drawn it up and it will soon be put before Parliament . 
I would be very grateful to you in particular , Commissioner , if we could achieve this together . 
We must continue our commitment to supporting South African efforts to overcome the legacy of apartheid . 
The rapporteur has been very generous in his interpretation of the Council &apos;s inexplicable 8-month delay in responding to Parliament &apos;s six amendments during the first reading . 
It should honour its initial financial pledges to South Africa and provide significant support to the neighbouring countries during their transition period . 
I did wonder , however , why it only mentions the European Union &apos; s development instrument in passing . 
What counts is the quality of cooperation with South Africa , which , in my opinion , is sound at present , particularly on account of the regional projects which have been financed over the past couple of years . 
This regulation is bound to have an impact on neighbouring states and I hope the Commission will take this into consideration . 
The rapporteur has broken new ground on commitology which can only bode well for the future . 
It may seem less important , but I think that the resources for the procedure should be retained . 
The time has come to say enough is enough ! 
I should like to retain the possibility of increasing this threshold for the South Africa budget line in the future , if need be . 
We must ask ourselves whether we are here solely to accept , at any time and under any kind of pressure , what the Council or the Commission proposes . 
It has done so in the past and will do so in the future . 
We should leave it until next month . 
It might be helpful to verify this . 
I should like to thank everyone who supported me in this matter of concern . 
I have taken note of the amendments to my report proposed by my fellow delegates with a great deal of interest . 
We must prepare for enlargement , but we do not need to start recruiting interpreters from the candidate countries as early as next year . 
We shall have to discuss this again in September during the first reading of this budget , once all the documents from the budget discharge procedure have been submitted . 
I am concerned at the wisdom of putting 30 % of the appropriation into the reserve for security services as the rapporteur proposes . 
I will start by quoting and commenting on a number of political statements . 
We shall see , in time . 
We are awarding ourselves a second computer , claiming that one is not enough . 
We are awarding ourselves a 20 % pay rise from a zero - growth budget . 
We shall accept this responsibility and take up this challenge . Not because we are afraid of being forced to do so . 
The basis must be clearly visible so that our citizens know what money is going where . 
We shall support the release of the Cot report - that is one part of Mr Elles &apos; motion . 
We are dealing with countries which are developing very rapidly , which means that we too must act quickly in order to have settled the language question by the time these countries join the Union . 
What is being proposed is to try to make some headway towards resolving those factors . 
We shall find ourselves in that position again come the next enlargement unless we take hard decisions now . 
We have come a long way , but there are further benefits to be obtained from informatics . 
I should point out that the average growth forecast for the budgets of the Member States is 3.1 % . 
I should point out that the refund was offset but a different figure was obtained because of the rate of the euro to the pound . 
You have cut it by 8.2 % and you have cut environmental policy by a hefty 28.2 % . 
We will need to opt for the Commission proposal of EUR 5.5 billion in total or move towards the Council which is proposing a somewhat lower figure . 
I will give you an example . 
We have seen rapporteurs , particularly Mrs Theato , obstructing documents outside their own area of competence for weeks at a time . 
It would allow the matter to be clarified as quickly as possible and , I think , would even allow the members who took recourse to the Court to withdraw their action . 
We must demand that the accession countries also endeavour to work in conjunction with the European Union and to the highest standards . 
This prosecutor must be accepted by the Member States , take on an active role and , at the same time , be integrated into the national jurisdiction of the Member States . 
I would remind you at this point that Parliament called for an external chamber for budgetary discipline in its resolution of 19 January . 
We are fighting here for technical measures which , hopefully , will not turn into a long - running saga . 
We must concentrate once again on European values so that , for example , our money is not misappropriated for the drawing up of military measures . 
We must see to it that these investigations are carried out as independently and fairly as possible . 
I would call on the Commission to submit proposals to this effect too . 
This anomaly must be resolved without delay . 
We have made a new start with the independent OLAF . 
This principle has been emphasised all the more by the revelation of inefficiencies within the Community institutions . 
The matter was discussed at length in the Conference of Presidents . 
We must address the lack of moral responsibility on the part of bureaucracies , which was condemned in such a masterly way by Kafka . 
I have run out of time without saying what I wanted to say but I wanted to respond to some of the points already made . 
Another panel would serve only to undermine OLAF &apos; s powers . 
It may be that he measured his land incorrectly . 
They have had five years to do it . 
I should like to thank all the speakers who wrote home calling for the necessary steps to be taken at long last . 
I should like to comment briefly on the complaints filed by the Commission against the European Central Bank and the European Investment Bank . 
I should like to thank you for calling for account to be taken of the principles of the rule of law in all procedures , including the work of OLAF . 
We shall have the opportunity of debating other reports on the subject of fighting fraud this year . 
I should point out that the Commission is currently working on a fundamental strategy paper on the fight against fraud . 
We would be happy to vote . 
They must be observed , and I can not make any exceptions . 
I would like to hear the opinion of our rapporteur , Mrs Schierhuber . 
I shall give Mr Goepel the floor and then we shall proceed to vote on Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf &apos; s proposal to postpone the vote until tomorrow morning or Thursday morning . 
We must remember that we live in the European Union where the free movement of goods , persons , services and capital is in operation . 
A compromise has been reached between the institutions at a recent Conciliation Committee meeting which was held last March . 
The directive will apply to accidents involving nationals of a Member State of the Union on Union territory or in any third country operating the Green Card system . 
We must put safety first and ensure that as much as possible is done to protect our citizens whilst travelling abroad . 
I am given to understand that Mrs Laguiller and Mrs Bordes are also involved in the explanation of vote that you have just given . 
We are forced to reduce aid to the absolute minimum , and we should have the discussion now . 
The aim must be to develop a flexible system which also takes account of regional sales potential , thereby allowing all Member States to cultivate on an equal footing . 
We have established OLAF to deal with suspicions of fraud and irregularities . 
Another panel would serve only to undermine OLAF &apos; s powers . 
It would be a colossal enterprise to set up when the problem , in reality , lies elsewhere . 
We have drafted a report on it , although not as quickly as we would otherwise have done , due to the break last year . 
We must ensure that the European Parliament can act in the codecision procedure as the real guarantor of consumer and health protection in the European Union . 
I am convinced of the need for the Commission to make proposals in order to close any loopholes in current legislation . 
We have been well aware of this problem for many years now . 
Safety must be a priority and we all understand that if we are to have equal precautions throughout the Member States , we need a variety of measures in place which have not so far been instituted . 
We have been able to tackle the problem of the possibility of maternal transmission by also taking out those animals that might be at risk because of their ancestry . 
We must make sure that the situation does not occur again . 
We must have the same rules , monitored in the same way . 
Everyone must be treated the same . 
It would have made provision for the necessary procedures and penalties . 
I would urge Commissioner Byrne to prioritise introduction of that level of consistency which is the only way that we can convince our consumers that we have a common policy in relation to ensuring public health . 
I can say that we have left no stone unturned in tackling this problem , including the removal of entire herds where an infected animal has in fact been diagnosed . 
We have set up a committee of inquiry chaired by our fellow Member , Mr Böge , a temporary monitoring committee ; we have even tabled a motion of censure , against Mr Böge &apos; s wishes . 
We have heard expert opinions from Mr Dirringer , the German virologist , Mr Picoud , Mr Dormont , Scottish specialists , our Portuguese fellow Member , Garcia , was a specialist . 
We have had debates , topical and urgent questions on the embargo , etc . 
The disease has been identified since 1986 , but nothing much was done until 1996 . 
We should wait to see what this inquiry says . 
I will be the first to support it . 
These rules will form a blueprint that can be followed in the event of any new scientific information being made available or if more radical action is required . 
I will say no more as far as that is concerned . 
I should add that ADNS regions are too small and too difficult to control . 
Parliament should be extremely grateful to both of them - especially the rapporteur for all the work that she put into this negotiation . 
I would call on the Council and both sides of industry finally to resolve this matter . 
I would like to begin by echoing previous speakers and adding my words of thanks to the rapporteur and to our chairman and to you for the magnificent work you did in that conciliation . 
I would like to know how the Commission intends to deal with this . 
I will be truly happy to see these sectors , which were excluded from the 1993 directive , provided with a recognised European regulation on working time , even if it does involve long and protracted timescales . 
They may have requested this additional period , but we should take great care to ensure that they do not use it . 
I have asked the Commission this question previously in committee and in plenary and have not yet received absolute clarification of this point . 
One should recall that the Council had originally proposed an exemption for a period of some 13 years before doctors in training would secure the benefits of the directive . 
I do hope that this directive can be implemented sooner rather than later . 
I am trying to muster support , even if we have not achieved everything we wanted to . 
It has been obvious since 1993 that those excluded from the directive at that time would eventually come under its protection . 
Some progress has been made and no doubt the conclusion of the conciliation has helped them in that regard . 
I shall come back to this point . 
I would like to remind the Council that we are just as dedicated to achieving results , but that they must not expect Parliament to make quite so many concessions on a regular basis . 
We have discussed this in the past . I will try to clarify it . 
We have seen a threefold increase in external assistance commitments managed by the SCR over the last 10 years . 
We have brought forward in the document , which has now been made public , our proposals for dealing with this problem . 
It would be initially an office under a board made up of all the External Relations Commissioners though , as I say , the option of moving to externalisation in the longer term remains on the table . 
We have proposed special treatment for the pre - accession strategy : humanitarian assistance and macro - financial assistance with fully integrated management . 
We have proposed taking urgent measures to tackle the backlog of old and dormant projects . 
We have done this without changing the portfolios that were defined . 
I should like to know what your colleague meant by this threat . 
We will be making a positive effort to get a solution that makes it possible to continue at least at the level of activity that we have now . 
It will deal with private partners , inspiring and helping the creation of business activities between European companies and business in the developing ACP countries . 
We should be careful not to end up facing a situation where there is a real threat of having to set our sights lower . 
I would seek an assurance that the Commission will enquire into this and ask the Chinese authorities whether they are providing the appropriate medical treatment . 
I will bring it to the attention of my colleagues and they will provide the honourable Member with the response he is seeking . 
I had understood from Mr Kinnock that the ship was in fact being inspected in a Portuguese port and that this inspection had taken place in the presence of Community inspectors . 
I would ask Mr Kinnock to communicate to Mr Fischler that , as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries , I would like to know the result of that inspection as soon as possible . 
I would like to receive it because this Parliament will have to act accordingly . 
This situation has reached dramatic proportions with the abolition of the albeit downgraded intervention system and the system of private storage , let me assure you is , quite frankly , a joke . 
What has happened with the euro ? 
I will try to reply briefly , although these are complex questions and I will therefore have to give this point some attention . 
It would require a very complex and profound debate to deal with this issue . 
I am convinced that this is a transitional situation which will improve during this year . 
I would like to say that , in order to judge from afar , it is often necessary to understand the reality . 
You can find the entire Community acquis on - line on the Celex website here in Parliament . 
I can tell the honourable Member that screening - i.e. legislative adjustment - was of course completed with all candidates some time ago . 
It is updated now and again because the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission are not idle and continue to produce legal acts , meaning that the acquis changes . 
I have said on many occasions that I would like it to be ready by the end of this year , at the Nice summit . 
You must know that every transition period , irrespective of whom it benefits , suspends the internal market for that area . 
I have discussed this matter on many occasions in your country , as you know , and so I can be brief . 
We shall have a so - called " play off " at the end of the negotiations between the wishes which the Member States still have and the wishes which the candidates have . 
What has happened is that the 20 minutes devoted to Mr Verheugen have run out and it is now Mr Monti &apos; s turn to reply , and he has been waiting some time . 
You can provide state aids that are untouchable , even by a Commissioner as powerful as yourself ! 
I should like once again to congratulate the rapporteur and vote in favour of this report . 
They have worked on the basis of the most general studies by the International Union of Railways . 
It must be made quite clear at this point that there is no question of insisting that rail companies and infrastructure managers immediately proceed to replace their equipment comprehensively . 
Nobody can deny its importance . 
I would urge you to support the amendments to this effect . 
Interoperability must be made compulsory , particularly for the new networks that are being built , even if the TSIs have not been finalised . 
I would like to add two separate issues concerning my country , Greece , since my capacity as chairman of the Transport Committee does not , I imagine , deny me the right to raise problems of this kind . 
It will help achieve a harmonisation of technical standards for equipment and rolling stock and the integration of national networks to boost cross - border traffic . 
The bridge will make it considerably easier to convey people and goods from Sweden and Finland to the rest of Europe . 
Trains have proved the European Union right : more competition keeps you alert and on the ball . 
The railways will become winners in the market if they become efficient and are given the opportunity to develop by their own efforts . 
I would like to speak on this particular subject but from a regional aspect . 
This proposal could be introduced into the framework directive concerning railway safety which the Commission will be introducing later this year . 
They help make the directive clearer , especially the special cases . Otherwise , they involve acceptable supplementary provisions , for example certain cases exempted from the technical specifications . 
We must hope that it will be possible to adopt the directive as early as at first reading . 
The company has reacted to the requirement of the NII to produce a programme responding to the recommendations in the report . 
We are working to encourage the applicant states to apply the good practices in use in the European Union . 
It will bring together nuclear power plant operators and nuclear regulators from both Member States and applicant states . 
I can assure you that the Commission will do everything it can to pursue the objective of a high level of nuclear safety , both within the present Union and an enlarged one . 
I am convinced that more could be done at Community level to achieve this . 
The result will be an enhanced safety culture and that is to be welcomed by all . 
I would ally myself with the concerns of Mrs McNally , when she asked the Commissioner to look again at these matters . 
I would suggest that one of the roles of Parliament should be to monitor the ongoing management changes that are taking place . 
The fuel can be safely used for the purposes for which it was manufactured . 
I can say that personally I would very much prefer to have Community rules . 
We must be realistic , because we know the discussion and the position and attitude among the Member States : they are not willing to give the European Union more competence in this area . 
I should be pleased to come to Parliament at any time to continue this discussion . 
I have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 42 ( 5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I would be grateful if this error could be corrected . 
We will check the list , Mr Valdivielso de Cué , and make the necessary correction . 
The committee has worked with its usual efficiency and diligence and has supported its proposals with an impressive econometric analysis which I should like to praise here in public . 
We shall judge the candidates in the French presidential elections according to the efforts they have made to get us out of this bind . 
We must take advantage of the fact that we are in the European Union to do things collectively . 
We must shake up the dogma of the Stability Pact . 
What is missing , of course , is a political superstructure for steering economic policy . 
I can predict that the question of whether or not the euro zone is to be enlarged to include Denmark , Sweden and Great Britain will be decided in Denmark in the referendum on 28 September . 
It has been said that they do not incorporate it fully . 
We can put a figure on both our employment objectives as well as on what we take the expression " full employment " to mean , as some of you have suggested . 
I would like to raise a point here which seems to me to be essential . 
I would like to make an additional comment on two points . 
Inflation has fallen over eight years from 18 % to 2 % , thanks to constant and unstinting effort . 
It must be noted that private operators have also discovered Greece . 
It must be stressed that the euro is a stable currency . 
This trend looks set to continue , as the Federal Reserve has just hiked up its interest rates . 
This effort is dictated by our wish to have a better standard of living , to run a modern economy and to prosper with the rest of Europe . 
The means chosen were neither economically suitable nor socially just . 
It will be adjourned for a formal sitting and will resume immediately after the formal sitting . 
I am informed by our services that the other reason for making this proposal was related to the limited time the groups have to table amendments . 
I suggested reconciling points of view within the groups and then tomorrow , in the House , discussing the timeliness of voting this week . 
I would like to express the hope that the Commission , Parliament and the Council will , at last , take European social policy more seriously . 
It is said time and again that the European citizens are not adversely affected as long as they stay in Europe . 
I would like to talk about some of the points which have been mentioned today , given the concern about the Greek model . 
I am convinced that all of that will happen , and the Greek Government has committed itself to ensuring that it does . 
The euro has shown that it is still an attractive currency which some countries want to join . 
You may ask whether this is contrary to the spirit of the Treaty of Maastricht , but it is clearly not a point which we can debate at the moment . 
I would urge Mrs Peijs to read again the latest version of the Treaty with regard to what she considers to be the last word on the law on competition within the European Union . 
We will try to resolve the problem you have raised in your speech , Mrs Maes . 
The rules must be applied in the same way to all parties . 
I would like to join my colleagues in thanking Commissioner Monti for consulting Parliament on this matter and in congratulating our rapporteur for her great job . 
We must ensure that with the advance of new technology the public service broadcast ethos is not undermined . 
I would argue that it is more essential , now that we have a strong public service broadcasting sector , to ensure the maintenance of that democratic , social and cultural sector . 
It will require a country - specific approach to assessing a country &apos; s position in development , poverty strategies and institutional capacity . 
It would be wonderful if the European Union and the Member States were to take a generous stance if the conditions were met . 
We may note , for example , that until the 1990s , the African states which were still linked to France by means of economic , monetary and military cooperation agreements represented a haven of stability and relative prosperity . 
We have heard a few examples from the HIPC - I and HIPC - II programmes and I understand that 1 billion is tied up in this second programme . 
The countries involved should be the poorest ones , to start with . 
They should have a democratic government and a pluriform parliament which keeps the government in check . 
The country must fight corruption actively . 
It is making sure that the funds of the European taxpayer are not misused to fund wars - crazy wars - in Africa . 
We must understand that we have to endeavour to ensure that political conditionality and the strengthening of democracy in these countries are the key factors underpinning our action . 
It would be wrong to think that we could simply broaden its scope and welcome all developing countries to it . 
I have received five motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 42(5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I have seen some of the farms that were reclaimed some years ago by Mr Mugabe and most of the fertile productive land has reverted to bush and the buildings and farmhouses are now crumbling ruins . 
It would be a positive step if MEPs acted as observers during these elections and included Mugabe &apos; s pre - electoral machinery in their assessment . 
They must be given a chance . 
We must be seen to have free and fair elections and to demonstrate that they have been fair and free . 
We must avoid this at all costs . 
We are urging the Mugabe government to accept that pluralism must be there to stay , and this is also the point of sending in the observers . 
I have received six motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I would like to remind you that we are 20 minutes behind schedule . 
It was agreed that , following this decision , an accession strategy would be established , which naturally includes strict monitoring of what the European Union regards as essential reforms . 
I should like you to investigate why this should be . 
I would like to point out - although you already know - that the President , together with her office , decides on the order of questions . 
I would be very happy to answer the honourable Member if I had any idea at the moment of how the debate on this issue will proceed . 
These savings will be extrapolated over the next two years . 
This matter should be considered at the Intergovernmental Conference . &apos; 
I would like to tell the President - in - Office of the Council and the honourable Members that we are discussing these issues within Parliament . 
I should prefer it if Parliament avoided the term Myanmar also . 
We are waiting for the US to decide against these Federal laws . 
I should like at this point to stress that the radio spectrum is not used solely for telecommunications . 
I have heard that in the United Kingdom , in order to find the money paid at auction , every man , woman and child will need to spend 400 pounds a year on telephone calls . 
He has drawn up not only a very concise but also a very hard - hitting report . 
I would point out , for example , that , last year , we in Finland noted that GSM prices were , on average , seven per cent lower . 
I must say that the assessment presented to us is , at least , detailed . 
I would appreciate it if the technicians could do something about it . 
I am booking my seat today ! 
It has been work done out of pure curiosity for the sake of knowledge as an end in itself which has , in the end , produced the big spin - offs that make a real difference . 
It is mentioned in clauses &apos; n &apos; and &apos; o &apos; of the preamble . 
We must increase it . It must go up to 3 % from the current pathetic 1.8 % - about half of what our Japanese and American friends and competitors put in . 
We should improve the European patent . 
I would name Finland , Sweden and countries like the Republic of Ireland , which have made good progress . 
I shall end by saying that we must also devote ourselves to informing the citizens , in whom scientific progress raises as much hope as concern . 
We must support the universities and researchers because , in Europe , working in research means sacrifices and a career full of risks and very few rewards and , of course , no economic reward . 
I think establishing a patent is a condition sine qua non , as has been adequately pointed out . 
I shall be able to give you the results of this in the near future . 
It may be useful that we , together with the women involved , should take an initiative . 
What is happening in Afghanistan is unjustifiable . 
Men will have to take more family responsibilities and adapt to a society which is constantly changing and which has modified their traditional roles . 
I should like , however , to point out a number of things . 
I should like to stress that Beijing will obviously give rise to negotiating problems . 
Politics is lagging behind this trend . 
We may call this the fourth Europe . 
You will remember that I informed the House at the time that I would ask the Legal Affairs Committee , in accordance with our Rules of Procedure , to give an opinion on this issue . 
I am going to suspend the sitting for a few moments as it seems that one of our colleagues is feeling ill . 
I am going to give the floor to Mrs Banotti who wishes to speak straightaway so that the Quaestors can take steps to ensure that the facilities are exactly as they should be . 
I would propose on behalf of colleagues that we have immediate resuscitation equipment here in the Chamber in case such a distressing event occurs again . 
They would prefer to be on the same floor as the plenary session and maybe we could actually look into that . 
I will return to the issue we were discussing : my Group &apos; s request for this House to express its opinion in accordance with the regulations . 
I have heard - because I do not have first - hand knowledge of the letter - that precedents are cited . 
We are talking about Rule 7(4 ) based on which I asked the Legal Affairs Committee to draw up a proposal . 
I have received a request for Parliament to adopt a position . 
I must remind Mr Wurtz that a tribunal does not deliver judgements . 
He should brush up on his legal knowledge . 
We must resolve this situation . 
We have reached an impasse . 
I suggest postponing the debate and vote on this extremely important report to the next part - session . 
This matter was signalled clearly at the Conference of Presidents last week - on more than one occasion , I understand . 
I should like to have that confirmed . 
I would ask you to accept this request . 
They are attracted by promises of employment and some even come in the hope of getting married . 
We must help these victims to speak out and denounce their living conditions . 
We must welcome and help them . 
What is required here is tantamount to surrendering an important and fundamental part of legal protection , namely the fact that one is considered innocent until proven guilty . 
We must listen to them . 
The debate will take place as proposed . 
I must do likewise with regard to the following report by Mr Alyssandrakis on radio spectrum policy , unless you can immediately formally acknowledge my declaration . 
It may be that , in the end , there will be some redundancy , but there are different points being made . 
We are proposing at 3 p.m. to have a debate on the Buitenweg report , followed by the debate on items of topical and urgent debate . 
You have indicated that we will start with the Buitenweg report at 3.00 p.m. and that we will vote at 6.00 p.m. 
We have agreed to vote at 6 p.m. 
It will depend on how the groups allocate speaking time between the different subjects and that is a matter for the groups , not for the President . 
You will have to refer the matter to the President and to the Quaestors . 
We have presented various amendments with a view to improving the content of the report . 
We would start by pointing out that , as far as we are concerned , the matter is not technical , it is highly political . 
I have voted with just as much conviction for the amendments to the Pomés Ruiz report . 
It will be up to the poor population of this country to settle its account with Mugabe and his regime , and certainly not the political servants of those who have grown rich by pillaging this country . 
We must make certain that the regulations being prepared , which have been submitted to this Parliament , adopt this approach . 
She would find it extremely useful and also a saving , but she will not be persuaded . 
We must strike up a social dialogue where this type of issue can be discussed . 
I should like to finish off with one last consideration regarding the shared burden of proof because I am really at a loss to understand the resistance on the part of some people . 
She has done an excellent and inclusive job producing a balanced text , which usefully strengthens the Commission &apos; s hand . 
I would like to point out that the amendments mentioned by Baroness Ludford are still not available in all languages this afternoon . 
We would be a real puzzle for a Nazi investigator or for the chart of ethnic origins which Baroness Ludford admired so much a few weeks ago in another report . 
The directive is said to have a supplementary function with regard to the political signal it sends out . 
I should like to refer very briefly to the more basic amendments which we are unable to accept . 
I was persuaded of the urgency , because of the current rise of racism across the EU . 
The plaintiff does have to provide facts and it has already been said that equal opportunities for men and women cover this in European legislation as well . 
She has achieved a great deal . 
We are used to coming out against racism , because we want to combat intolerance and xenophobia . 
We have paid very great attention to the social dialogue , which means talking with each other , examining problems and understanding each other . 
We should endeavour to provide incentives and to act as a model . 
We have learnt some lessons from history and we know how to fight these things . 
We must make sure that we do not rob companies of working time and jeopardise their success by forcing them to spend more time on statistical form filling . 
People will need to protect themselves against such abuse . 
Everyone will try to protect themselves as well as possible so that if they are taken to court they can provide evidence . 
I can see great dangers here and we must ensure that they are averted . 
We have seen how this is an enormous advantage in connection with sex discrimination , and it is therefore good that it is now being introduced in this area . 
It would be interesting if the Commission could explain to us what the motives were for creating this hierarchy of discrimination . 
I can understand why the Commission has decided to include the fight against racial discrimination in a separate draft directive . 
I would call for at least exercising more honesty when we discuss Africa . 
We can condemn and we can make demands , but what we need to do , and can do , as a Parliament , is to come up with new ideas . 
We should congratulate the British Government on taking effective action in a peace - keeping capacity . 
We should consider that lesson when we try to impose peace agreements in the future . 
We will continue to support the legitimate government &apos; s attempts to restore peace and stability to the country and to implement programmes of economic and social recovery . 
I can give you examples of what I have seen . 
I have seen Tamil men being harassed on the streets by government troops . 
I have seen the fighting in Sierra Leone , Chechnya , Kosovo but nothing from Sri Lanka because the Sri Lankan Government does not allow press coverage . 
These elections may offer Guinea the opportunity to start along the path to democracy . 
They are targeting the independent press because it is a major channel for reformists . 
It may be opportune to consider whether we can take so - called intelligent sanctions against Burma . 
I do hope that Members will support this motion , because this is something we can actually change for the better . 
We are saying now to the Belgian authorities and the European football authorities that they should choose the option of a safer ground that is available elsewhere in Belgium , and the stadium in Brussels has been cited . 
We must ask ourselves why measures taken in the past have repeatedly failed to create a culture of enjoyment in football for everybody . 
We must try to counter this phenomenon of hooliganism to the best of our ability . 
We can appreciate the enormous efforts which the governments of the organising countries have made in order to make Euro 2000 run as smoothly as possible . 
I should wish to add one final point about the 21 hostages - seven of them are European Union citizens . 
Those concerns were reflected in the presidency declaration at the beginning of May. 
The reformists have remained calm , and so should we , hoping that the convening of parliament will shortly help improve the situation . 
I will be very brief but I rise on a matter which is dear to the hearts of most Members here . 
We will refer that to the College of Quaestors , as you requested . 
The decision was taken this morning that we would vote at 6 p.m. and that the urgencies not reached would be voted on even though they were not debated . 
That debate has been concluded . 
We were going to discuss Guatemala . 
I should like to move that we proceed to a vote straight away . 
They can treat those who are dependent on them unequally by rewarding or punishing them for features which are out of their control . 
I was going to vote in favour of the motion given its positive points and the hopes to which certain points may legitimately give rise . 
We must tackle racism wherever and whenever it occurs . 
We must go further and legislate . 
We should like an assurance that this will be duly corrected . 
They could be our fathers , our sons or ourselves . 
It is estimated that 500 000 women are trafficked every year , the majority of whom then work illegally , but the underground nature of the trade means that the true extent of the problem is unknown . 
We have proved that in the proposals that we put to the European Council of Tampere last October . 
Priority is given in the proposal for a regulation to send back foreigners illegally present on the territory of Member States under a system of compulsory readmission operating between Member States . 
I would like to add a few important points . 
We have heard about these shortcomings in the debate as well as reading about them in the reports . 
No distinction is made between those who do not fulfil and those who no longer fulfil the conditions in force for residence here . 
I would point out that , of all the members of the Committees , only two supported this initiative . 
I can assure you that the Commission thinks that we should not start with this question of readmission . 
I will have to take a decision on Monday as to whether they will be travelling to Strasbourg or Brussels . 
I would like to inform and at the same time reassure the Members who have just spoken on this important and serious matter . 
I should like to point out to them that the College of Quaestors has acted in accordance with the precautionary principle . 
We shall wait for the results of these checks and we shall take the necessary steps in accordance with the precautionary principle . 
I should like the position of this House to be made very clear . 
I would urge you to let us work fairly and to stop deliberately disrupting our work . 
It was broadcast on television the same day that there were not enough Members present in plenary to discuss aid to Ethiopia . 
I would urge that this rather remarkable procedure be carried out . 
They will be called upon to play an even more important role in the immediate future . 
We have known for a long time what kind of problems the fishing industry as a whole has to contend with . 
We should be prepared to use our muscle and impose every necessary trade sanction on all the states and all the products that are associated with this illegal trade . 
I have been up in my room just now , and it is little surprising that Fridays are so devalued . 
I would ask you to check that the whole service of Parliament is available so long as the House is sitting . 
We will be staffing ships with sailors who do not know how to swim , next . 
We must protect the periphyton of marine organisms now in order to preserve all species . 
It would take a long and complicated explanation to say why . 
I should like to ask the Commission if the fishermen have been compensated for their losses or been directed to other likely fishing grounds . 
I have paid particular attention to scientific advice which indicates the requirement for the closure of fisheries for sand eels off the north - east coast of England and the east coast of Scotland . 
We have got to get this right so that in the long run fish stocks in Europe are conserved , thereby ensuring the continuing viability of our fisheries communities . 
I should like to thank the Commission for being so prepared to listen and to accept both suggestions from this House as well as from the Council , which were along the same lines . 
It was suggested that a closed season for sand eel fishing should be introduced between April and August when the breeding birds were most dependent on sand eels for food . 
We can improve our resources . 
We could increase by something like EUR 4 000 million the value of the fish landed in the European Union if we could apply a little bit more care over a period of time to our fishing activities . 
I would like to thank the House for its patience in listening to my explanations of votes . 
I should like Parliament &apos; s administration to take immediate steps to put an end to this occupation , so that Members can have the use of both ends of their coffee bar . 
We will ensure that is enforced . 
We have discussed this subject in great depth . It has not been too controversial , so it is also possible to discuss it at the end of such a sitting . 
I would like for this to be the case in other areas as well . 
I must say that these visitors wonder , naturally , whether this is what Europe is all about . 
I will take that as an interesting intervention . 
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament . 
We shall clarify the matter . 
We can do that separately and at different times . 
I have taken note of the honourable member &apos; s comment . 
I should like to reiterate my express thanks in this connection to the Commission and Commissioner Fischler , who has been most cooperative in this matter . 
He has outlined the matter quite clearly . 
We have made certain useful suggestions so that we may find our way out of a situation which is not only unsatisfactory but also negative for the development of democracy in Europe . 
We have taken an initiative across the various political groups , which we presented in February to President Prodi . 
The institutions must be able to deliver accountability and transparency . 
We are asking for your assistance to ensure that this vital element , as the Treaty states , in the democratic life and political debate of the Union is validated by statute . 
We must take the view that they must respect fundamental democratic rights , human rights and the principle of the rule of law when they function . 
The proposal was touched on at the intergovernmental conference . 
We shall comply with these demands . 
I should like to close by saying that I too am in favour of finding a solution to this muddle . 
We must recognise the fact that we are squandering money in national budgets . 
I must point out that the interim bodies started work in March 2000 and that the Committee for Civilian Crisis Management was formally created during the Portuguese Presidency . 
Every effort is being made to ensure effective use of all the assets and capabilities and to avoid the duplication which could lead to additional defence costs . 
It must be stressed that the headline goal defined in Helsinki is open to participation by these countries which may therefore contribute to the European force . 
It must be stressed that , under the terms agreed in Helsinki , EU operations will in principle be open to participation by these countries . 
These summits have reminded us that there is an urgent need for our policies to become more ambitious , coherent and effective . 
It must be seen in terms of specific crisis situations which are likely to occur , whilst respecting the freedom and the will of each of our States . 
It would be useful to know whether the Council feels that the upturn in growth in Europe is such as to favour this essential turnaround and how the Council intends to promote it . 
I would like to stress that we should not be guided by power motives . 
We must develop complementary , and not duplicate , structures . 
The opportunity was missed in Helsinki to give concrete expression to an active prevention policy and efficient and prompt crisis management and we urgently need to make up lost ground here . 
She has succeeded in describing a really accurate and balanced position with which a large majority of the political forces here in Parliament can identify . 
These realisations have resulted in the European Union &apos; s at long last tackling and stepping up its efforts to define , organise and restructure a common security and defence policy . 
It is disturbing to note the major rush towards the militarisation of the European Union . 
I am reminded of the policy of the Christmas goose trying to postpone Christmas . 
It would be good if more transparency were to reign here and if we were to come to accept that the European Parliament is the right forum . 
These realities must temper our discussions at Feira and elsewhere as must also the need to keep in mind the status and role of the United Nations . 
I should like to congratulate Mrs Lalumière because she has taken a huge step forward in her report . 
This concept is based upon individual Member States &apos; fulfilling the commitments they have made . 
Reforms must be implemented , major financial resources and means must be identified , made compatible and mobilised . 
It must be a turning point characterised by the identification of the necessary financial resources and by the inclusion on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference of the institutional aspects of the Common European Security and Defence Policy . 
I should like to point out that there is an important typographical error in Amendment No 39 , which Members will have . 
These amendments have been deemed to be inadmissible . 
They are designed to attempt to eliminate Strasbourg and to concentrate Parliament &apos; s activities in Brussels . 
I would like to add something further . It is a fact that very few Members of the House are present here in Strasbourg on Friday mornings . 
I have come to the opinion that agendas for the Friday sessions have been engineered to fill up the session and are becoming increasingly meaningless . 
We must make life simpler for our citizens and simplify our legislation as well ! 
This dilemma must be resolved in the interests of the credibility of Community policy . 
We have got them used to subsidies and that has , to all intents and purposes , destroyed our chances of restructuring the cultivation of raw tobacco . 
I am disappointed it was not accepted . 
I am fed up with them trying to put a stop to these proposals . 
People have been hooked on the idea that &apos; mild &apos; and &apos; low tar &apos; cigarettes are healthier . 
This legislation will spell out the dangers of smoking and save thousands of lives . 
We should send the multibillion pound bill for decommissioning the nuclear industry to the person responsible , although I still do not know who that is . 
I must take this opportunity to say that I do not approve of the growing frequency with which we resort to this type of line ! 
This assessment was carried out over many sessions with preparatory meetings initially being held within a PropCom . 
Members will be able to follow up any further details in that exchange with Commissioner Diamantopoulou next week . 
We should point out to the acceding countries that they need to improve this situation . 
I would ask you to give attention to this . 
I will join that group of people who just said that real progress was made on many issues at the New York Conference . 
I would appeal to Commissioner Patten that when enlargement negotiations are being conducted , serious attention be paid to Poland &apos; s compliance with EU legislation on equality and its recognition of women &apos; s rights . 
I should like to point out that the Presidency of the EU , especially the minister Mrs De Belém Roseira , actively contributed to a successful final outcome , something we would thank her for . 
I do have reservations with regard to Poland , but precisely because Parliament &apos; s delegation played such a significant role . 
We must lead the way in defending women &apos; s rights and we must continue the work in this respect . 
We must take advantage of all these opportunities . 
I have received four motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I would like to explore this further with Tunisia . 
Others could have referred , for example , to the position of Tunisia on the sharia law . 
I have spent fifteen years of my life without a passport or driving licence . 
We can start by asking how things are going to develop in Tunisia . 
We must help Tunisia , just as we must help the whole area , the whole region . 
We must do it in a way which does not repulse our Mediterranean partners but which invites them back into the fold . 
I have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 40(5 ) . 
It is hoped that the accession process can be completed quickly through firm commitments which are compatible with the level of development already achieved by certain sectors of the Chinese economy . 
I have had some experience of negotiating with China myself and I have to say that I am lost in admiration for Commissioner Lamy &apos;s achievement . 
We are counting on China &apos; s supporting the European Union &apos; s proposals for a comprehensive new round of WTO talks in the short term . 
I would plead for the internal territorial interests of Member States to be overcome on this particular point . 
I am wondering now if the Commission has carried out any other analyses . 
It would be extremely interesting to know . 
It would be extremely interesting to know what are the Commission &apos; s and the Council &apos; s analyses of this question . 
It has been estimated that increased competition from cheap agricultural imports could mean that about 400 million rural Chinese will no longer be needed on farms by 2005 . 
It should enable us to work even more efficiently in the future in the European Union . 
It must opt either for a structure with a solid set of policies and a corresponding budget at the same level or simply for a kind of savings fund . 
I would like to remind you that this Question Time is for questions to the Council . 
It is hoped that this positive process will continue so that the issues relating to the Aegean are successfully resolved in accordance with international law . 
It should be recalled in this respect , as this is also extremely positive , that Turkish troops participated in the NATO exercise which took place in part on Greek territory . 
We must realise instead that it is essential to reduce these tensions . 
It would be politically more responsible at this time to try and reduce the tensions . 
We must bide our time and ensure that this negotiating framework can operate , particularly bearing in mind the currently positive Greek - Turkish relations . 
We are continuing to closely monitor this situation . 
I would say this question was prompted by the very large number of letters I receive from constituents about this particular issue . 
These meetings are held monthly and before the formal meetings of Ecofin which involve all fifteen Member States . 
We must be clear on this , Mr Krarup . Issues relating to the single currency are addressed jointly but solely by the eleven members of Euro 11 . 
You will say that this is not part of the normal procedure . 
They can hear what we are discussing and agree or disagree . 
We can discuss the issue of whether or not legislative decisions should be taken in public . 
I did say that these measures would involve many small steps . 
They are saying exactly what their commitment is . 
I would like to ask you if there has ever been consultation within the Council to tighten up this code of conduct or to make it more easily enforceable ? 
I can say this as I attended and participated in the negotiations on this code . The reality is that the code clearly gives no guarantees with regard to monitoring how the Member States interpret their responsibilities . 
I would have been surprised if there had not been a question on this issue which is why I am glad that it has finally come up . 
I would ask him to give this House this evening an assurance that he will use his undoubted influence to have the matter discussed at the summit in your country next week . 
It was raised the day before yesterday by the Austrian Foreign Minister in Luxembourg and Doctor Wolfgang Schüssel will very probably take the opportunity afforded by his presence in Santa Maria da Feira to raise this issue . 
I would like to ask the President - in - Office , finally , if he and his Council recognise the outcome of democratic elections within this Union ? 
Someone must take an initiative to resolve this serious problem . 
It has given stature to an individual who does not deserve that stature . 
I will start with the last part of the honourable Member &apos; s question by saying that we were not the ones who gave stature to someone who does not deserve this . 
What has changed in the Austrian situation which could lead us to change our attitude ? 
What has happened in Austria to justify this change ? 
I would like to highlight four issues . 
We must say that this request by the European Parliament , at least with regard to diligence and speed , has not been attended to , and this is a cause for regret . 
They have done their duties with regard to the multilateral institutions and have fully complied with what the European Union expected of them . 
The funds appropriated are not sufficient and the staffing is certainly inadequate . 
This plan must do more than just provide immediate alleviation of the effects of the hurricane : it must also bring about redistribution of the country &apos; s resources and restore the country &apos; s opportunities . 
I would like to conclude by reiterating the invitation to the Commission and the Council contained in the resolution to support the total and immediate cancellation of the foreign debt . 
It might help if we were to facilitate its access to the European markets . 
The programme is based on the principle of sustainable development , as has been underlined by several speakers . 
These officials must have access to cross - border information . 
We have discussed extremely constructively and fairly with each other . 
I should like to highlight the question of shortening and simplifying the qualification procedures without - and that is the crux of the matter - compromising careful examination . 
It will help enormously if we manage to draw up these lists . 
Things were looking up , according to many journalists . 
We must implement the Treaty of Amsterdam by the end of 2004 . 
We have made a start , a good start and must progress hand in hand . 
I shall be pleased if we progress by so much as a millimetre . 
I would be willing to help and even accommodate asylum seekers . " And I replied , " Do not worry . 
You will see that the Commission will also use those who do not have work who are admitted into our country to help elderly people who are not self - sufficient and who need help . " 
I would ask you to convey my good wishes to Mr Schulz , who is no longer here . 
It is disturbing , however , that the measures concerned with aid to crime victims are not intended to come into effect until 2004 in this scoreboard . 
These questions were highlighted again in Tampere in the autumn of 1999 . 
We have embarked upon a new process . 
The police will play an important role because they are the point of first contact , and special training is often required in this connection . 
We must start by achieving a common definition of the concept of the victim to include families and dependants , since they also suffer the consequences of crime . 
I would like to express my agreement with what has been said by other speakers about the hope that the Commission will be more ambitious than it has been in this communication . 
I should like to thank those members because , even as someone who was not involved , I can say that this is an important directive . 
We have agreed on a clear regulation here which ensures that the debtor can not procure additional liquidity or additional advantages at the creditor &apos; s expense . 
We should be proud of the common text which we will be adopting tomorrow and which we were able to adopt in the Conciliation Committee . 
It is regulating what should be regulated . 
We can defend it perfectly from all angles , both with regard to transactions between traders and transactions between traders and the government . 
It will affect millions of small businesses and millions of individuals who carry on economic activities , even though this may not as yet be apparent . 
I must conclude by again congratulating Mr Murphy and this House on the decision to be taken . 
We are investigating the matter you have just told us about very carefully . 
We will try to put an end to it . 
I did refer yesterday to the man or woman dressed as a cigarette packet standing outside this Chamber . 
I am speaking on his behalf . 
I would like to mention three of the priorities the Commission is seeking to highlight at the European Council . 
We should debate the advantages and the changes involved in it with them . 
I would like to stress that the Commission &apos; s work is complementary to all the developments in European security and defence policy . 
We should pay tribute to the Prime Minister of the State of Israel , Ehud Barak , for having taken this difficult decision after 22 years of occupation . 
One could say that , certainly , Madam President , but I would not want to tie the idea down to too technological a definition . 
It has done so , in particular , on a point Mr Gama mentioned , the fourth Amsterdam &apos; leftover &apos; , and I hope the &apos; enhanced cooperations &apos; will allow us to move on . 
I would like to call on you personally to do everything in your power to make sure that we send a signal to the peoples of Central Europe that they are welcome to join us ! 
I would like to offer you my emphatic support - be flexible ! 
I would like to add one more thought . 
I should have mentioned it just now , but I forgot . 
You have remarked , Mr President - in - Office , that enlargement is the historic challenge . 
I would like to say that the Mediterranean strategy is a very important one . 
These factors have been the key to the success of the cooperative , peaceful and developed Europe which we have come to know in the last fifty years . 
They will create a State within the State and make decisions on behalf of everyone else . 
He must rectify what could have been avoided . 
We must stress the need for the creation of more jobs to be a priority and an objective of the European Union . 
We have drafted 60 clauses and provoked 1000 amendments . 
This prejudice must be suppressed by the Feira Council if the project is to succeed . 
I have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
We will debate those issues whatever happens . 
Nothing should distract us from our real task at the Intergovernmental Conference , otherwise the Union will no longer be able to take decisions . 
An attempt must be made to make the Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding . 
I would advise you to let the political will prevail in Feira too in order to let the enlargement go ahead . 
I must stress that the European Union has adopted a methodology for drawing up this Charter which involves a convention . 
The Convention will have to complete its work and decide on many aspects which have not yet been decided . 
No decision has been taken by any EU body although , naturally , we are all Member States . 
I have asked the Members of this Parliament who raised the issue to be aware that it is very difficult to adopt a balanced approach to this problem if an immediate solution is demanded . 
It will take the initiative . 
I would like to say a word on Croatia to Mr Barón Crespo . 
I am talking about success . 
Creditors will be entitled to charge a statutory interest rate of 7 % on their debts , encouraging debtors to pay early . 
I would add that we think the new differentiated cooperation should be applicable to security policy so that it can be developed on a voluntary basis and in respect for national sovereignty . 
The debate has started and your opinion on the explanations of vote will also certainly be of value in due course . 
We have voted against this resolution to affirm our opposition not only to a common European army but to national armies as well . 
It can be recommended to do so , but subsidiarity applies . 
This matter must be dealt with , for it is unthinkable that we should have to put up with this type of demonstration taking place inside Parliament in the name of democracy , open doors and freedom . 
He has put his finger on the main problems encountered in implementing Structural Funds credits , and he has clearly indicated what we want to see in this area in the future . 
I would like to concentrate on two issues . 
That stocktaking can help us correct any past excesses and learn to manage present and future appropriations better . 
I should like to hear the comments of the Member of the Commission regarding this principle that policy areas must be compatible with one another . 
I would be grateful if this could be corrected where it is wrongly shown . 
We must help the independent democratic media in Serbia so that they can provide accurate information as far as possible , and so that democracy may yet blossom in Serbia . 
They are forbidden to give lectures and they have been removed from their posts because of allegedly inadequate qualifications . 
You can imagine how they rate quality there ! 
We must attempt to at least give these people some certainty about where these missing persons are , what prisons they are in or where they met their death . 
Nobody can say who committed them , but someone is responsible for the fact that a Serb - or even several Serbs - is murdered somewhere every day . 
They are viewed as traitors by some of their own compatriots . 
We must try to ensure greater police protection . 
We are talking about human beings , and it is a humanitarian act to press for these people to be released and united with their families one day . 
The police are doing everything possible , but nothing like the promised number of police has arrived . 
It may be that we should be the ones to give them strong support in Serbia and Kosovo . 
We are sitting on the sidelines and can do all too little to bolster the democratic powers . 
The money concerned can not be spent until Belgrade makes a U - turn , but that will only happen if the opposition can express itself . 
We are calling for their release and we are demanding freedom of the media , but we must of course do something practical . 
We must draw a distinction between the people and the regime , and we must support the people and we must give them information and an independent voice . 
We are calling for him to be released as a matter of urgency . 
I would like to illustrate this link by referring to the position of Mrs Rada Trajkovic from Grazanica . 
We must condemn ethnically motivated violence regardless of who the perpetrators and the victims are , that is regardless of who is at the receiving end of ethnic violence and who commits it . 
We have started it and we are determined to bring it to a successful conclusion . 
We have tried , in our resolution , to emphasise both these factors simultaneously . 
We would have liked the issue of human rights as managed by the legally constituted government in Paraguay to be specifically taken into account . 
We can help to develop these institutions , but the political will really to establish them , to use them and take advantage of them has to come from those who are currently in power in Paraguay . 
These observations should lead the European Parliament to proclaim the illegality of the election of Mr Fujimori and call for more elections , rather than being content with merely questioning its legitimacy . 
We will be following the situation in Peru with the greatest vigilance and are prepared to rethink our relations with Peru against this background . 
The amendment has been voted upon as I announced it . 
I would be grateful if this could be clarified afterwards , because we voted on the assumption that this was not a TDI amendment , but an amendment tabled by the rapporteur . 
I would like to make it quite clear that this amendment was tabled by the TDI group , and was voted by plenary . 
This incident was recorded on film and I would ask the Presidency to watch it and adopt any necessary measures . 
We had thought , quite logically , that all the discussions had taken place before the Treaty of Amsterdam was adopted and that the federalists knew where they were going . 
We risk being caught up in the system . 
No countries can argue their way out of responsibility when refugees seek asylum on their territory . 
I would stress that the incident was recorded on film , and it is clear from this film that the bad language aimed at the person who threw the water was delivered after the water had been thrown . 
We should like , on the whole , to see a more balanced investment policy , aimed at increasing diversification and investment in the environment and , at the same time , reducing investment in the roads sector . 
We would ask the Commission to submit a report on the extent to which the additionality principle is respected when resources are obtained from the Cohesion Fund . 
I would draw the Commissioner &apos; s attention to the need for greater coordination of European funds with the objectives of sustainable development within the EU and real balance between the regions . 
I would ask the Commissioner to give his opinion in this respect . 
This opinion has tried to correct the Commission &apos; s approach , which ignores most of the essential elements , not only for control , but also for administration . 
This approach must be applied systematically and must be based on the analysis of the payments corresponding to each regulation . 
This subject was addressed at the time of the 1998 final discharge . 
These measures have run their course and must come to an end . 
We must prevent a rural exodus . 
It has been argued that we are talking about a long - term investment here . 
I have explained that there are new options . 
It has been said that this is all too little and that more money is needed , and it has been argued that this is only nought point something of the total agricultural budget . 
I have corresponded with the President of our Parliament on this issue and she has written to me assuring me that this matter would be corrected and that the British flag would be flown the right way up . 
I can assure you , Mr Helmer , that everything will be done to ensure that the prestige of your flag is restored . 
We shall verify this and rectify it , if necessary . 
I would argue that this type of discussion can only be based on an evaluation carried out by an independent body . 
I would like to thank both the rapporteurs . 
They have done a good , serious job . 
They have asked very serious questions . 
I would like us to have another debate like this next year to really assess how effective the observatory is and how effectively it is using its very considerable budget in this work . 
It would appear that this is not the case , however . 
Resources must be increased via the PHARE and TACIS programmes . 
I would point out to you that Article 69 stipulates that this procedure takes place without debate . 
I would point out that copyrights last for as long as 70 years in a number of States . 
I am speaking today on behalf of my British Conservative colleagues , Lord Inglewood and Mr Harbour who unfortunately can not be in the Chamber . 
We must protest most strongly against such a move , which could not be justified on the grounds of cost and effectiveness . 
Nobody would think of doubting the importance of petitions , which play a significant part in signalling that , in some instances , Community law has not been applied in Member States . 
We are tested by our will in favour of the individual , the citizen , seeking their rights under Community law . 
I shall be following that up and we may have to look into it again . 
I should like to say this in conclusion . 
It has remembered the importance of the infringement procedure , which must not become subject to opportune reform by the Commission . 
It has highlighted the position of the preliminary question in the European system and the need to step up training in Community law within the Member States . 
I should stress , however , that the intention is to ask the Commission to intensify its relations with national administrations when there is a problem , in order that it can be resolved beforehand . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 16 June 2000 . 
We must take every possible action to dismantle this &apos; industry &apos; dealing in death . 
Action must be taken now . 
I would like to give you this opportunity to let us know what you understood the protocol of that meeting to be , and perhaps also to clarify what you said to the press afterwards . 
I should like to ask you , Madam President , and of course also the Council and the Commission , to do all you can to prevent a bill of this kind from being adopted . 
You can count on me to proceed with the requisite diplomacy . 
I would ask you to send greetings to the new president . 
We have adopted resolutions on this subject time and time again . 
You can put it to the vote if need be . I am sure that it would be possible to include the matter and we could also decide to instruct the negotiators to take it into account . 
I would find this totally unacceptable . 
Everyone has heard the suggestion . 
I would be grateful if you could explain this to me , Madam President . 
This matter has been drawn to the attention of the Committee on Citizens &apos; Rights and Freedoms , Justice and Home Affairs , which I have the honour to chair . 
It may be that we need to refer the matter to the Group of Three Wise Persons charged with investigating the situation in Austria . 
This situation would put an end to what has been the driving force of the European Union and the European Community since the Second World War . Closer cooperation must therefore not lead to a two - speed Europe . 
I would like to return this compliment because , during my years of experience in this House , I had never known a Prime Minister to appear three times during a Presidency , but he has done just that . 
I would like to point out firstly that , in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights , although it has still not been included , an important step has been made in that direction . 
I would like to offer the Portuguese Presidency my sincere congratulations on having successfully managed this initiative , which is very important , in my opinion , even if the press itself has not yet realised this . 
We must tackle the issue of China . 
We should be putting all the weight we possibly can behind India and attempting to make China see that Chinese citizens truly deserve to have democracy . 
I would like to contribute a further example , of which there can never be too many . 
I should like briefly to make three points . 
I would be grateful if the Bureau could clarify matters for us . 
We will clarify this matter , Mr Ribeiro e Castro . 
I should like to emphasise that Portugal and President Guterres &apos; entire team have deserved well of the European Union and that France now has the opportunity to prove that even a large country can complete a successful presidency . 
We must be more vigorous about the process of European integration and must not begin to be in two minds about it . 
We must show what kind of EU we want . 
We should like to have seen more concrete results . Countries are still protecting their positions , and the debate about the EU &apos; s future has only just begun . 
I should like to address some of the central issues that have arisen in this debate . 
I would like to make it quite clear ... 
I can answer very directly : in my own area it is a subject about which I have made one or two speeches recently . 
We should be trying to exercise those powers in a way that is even more democratically accountable . 
It should help them to harmonise and comply with common rules , even the hopelessly inadequate rules which prevail in the Member States of the Union . 
We can do this perfectly well , without any particularly illegal infringements , by including clauses and arrangements to foster harmonisation in trade and other cooperation agreements with these countries . 
They have been particularly successful . 
We should learn from that experience . 
This money is laundered and put into circulation in the legal economy . 
We will be firmly supporting these proposals from the rapporteur . 
We have attached particular importance to the inclusion of dealers in precious stones , dealers in luxury goods with a value in excess of EUR 50 000 and auctioneers . 
It might be appropriate to set up an authority or permanent monitoring centre , considering the considerable diversity of types of money laundering . 
I am talking about a serious interinstitutional problem , since this Parliament is not undergoing a codecision procedure , it is not tabling amendments . 
I must point out that the United States have at least 25 years of experience in this type of system , which supports the idea that this can work and that it is going to work . 
I will end , Mr President . 
They will come to their own conclusions about how they will change their system . 
Conditionality will mean no protection now . 
You will remember that at that time , after the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty , uniform rules on visas were to be introduced within the European Union for the first time . 
I would request that the President of France be informed of the impossible working conditions to which we are exposed because Parliament meets in Strasbourg . 
I would like to ask you what the reason is behind this procedure . 
I would like to ask you , Mr President , to change the admission procedure in Brussels back to how it used to be : you identify yourself , a badge is made and you are admitted . 
Amounts will be made available which allow for sufficient personnel and which can subsequently be verified to see whether the plan actually worked . 
I am thrilled about the fact that we can , as it were , close off a chapter of fear and a culture of self - interest . 
We will keep an eye on the situation and make sure the Commission sticks to the promises it has made . 
I would like to begin , not with the most important report , but by replying to the comments of Mr Kuhne which I really consider to be unfortunate . 
We are analysing a financial year of the last Commission , and we have asked the current Commission to diligently manage issues which were pending from the previous Commission . 
I can assure her that this will continue to be the case for the next four or five years . 
We must ensure that private and public matters are not muddled . 
We shall support this report which the rapporteur is clearly against . 
I should like to congratulate Mrs Stauner on the courage which she has shown in getting her report - although not much of it is in its original form - through this Parliament . 
She has been criticised , particularly in the Committee on Budgetary Control , yet she has produced an outstanding piece of work , and I wished to make that point today . 
This agreement will restrict the rights of individual MEPs , of rapporteurs , to ask for information from the Commission . 
I should like to address you in the same vein . 
This attitude has led the majority of members of the Committee on Budgetary Control to make radical changes to the draft report . 
I have come to the conclusion , having had a lot of experience in Parliament and with European affairs , that things have been steadily improving and that 1998 was one of the best performances we had . 
We must heed this call . 
We have listened with great interest to your speech today and to the speech you made last week in Berlin . 
You have spoken of having more than an accord à minimum . 
We must be cautious about a drift in that direction . 
We can launch a debate on that but clearly it is too complex a question to resolve in the next six months . 
I would express one hope : that this debate does not become a third lock on the door of enlargement . 
We must learn the lessons of the past in order to make preparations for the future to avoid , once again , strengthening the powers of the Commission , a technocratic structure operating without transparency or democracy . 
Diversity must be respected , and we must allow diversities to be expressed , for they are the true wealth of Europe . 
I should like to thank the President , Mr Jacques Chirac , for the very full answers he has given the group chairmen in this House . 
We shall carry on with our debate . 
We must be grateful to the President - in - Office of the Council for having had both the courage and boldness to encourage our partners to engage in discussions but also to suggest the guidelines for these . 
We must reach an agreement , and a good one at that . 
He was entitled to speak before the response from the President - in - Office of the Council . 
We should like to see the right of veto cancelled for the transition to intensified cooperation , but this increased flexibility should not pave the way for an increasingly intergovernmental mode of operation . 
I should like to say that I am still convinced that we are not going to have to work so hard over such a long period to persuade Prime Minister Jospin to at last grasp the European cause firmly . 
I shall use my speaking time , however , to remind you that this Parliament asked the IGC to grant Parliament the right finally to decide on its own location . 
I should like to discuss the three factors which I think are at the root of the crisis in Europe today . 
I shall sum this up in one sentence : work on the Constitution and therefore on Europe &apos; s prospects must be clearly launched during the French Presidency . It must be launched at Nice . 
We must educate young people to stand up for principles , and the fight against drugs and the development of the social function of sport may well play a significant part in this . 
I am thinking here of the word &apos; federalism &apos; , and he said that everything depends on what one means by this . 
We are leaving it for the future . 
They have managed to do excellent work under very difficult conditions . 
I will take a decision on this in the next few months depending on developments in Zimbabwe . 
We must give decisive support to its future . 
We should take direct action against assets that President Mugabe owns outside of Zimbabwe . 
We must take the argument directly to the man who has created the problems . 
I would like to underline this because these people are also being sucked into a maelstrom of events which are beyond their control . 
I am convinced that the Union was right , profoundly right , to send this mission , a long time in advance , in order to bring an element of calm to this campaign . 
I am convinced that this process needs to ensure the stabilisation of the country and also its democratic involvement in regional integration . 
I would like to inform you that pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure , I have received five motions for resolutions . 
This point must be emphasised in order to respond to those who say that it is immigration control that creates illegal immigrants . 
This body has succeeded in breaking up and halting the activities of around fifteen criminal networks per year . 
They can be combated by means of a firm political will . 
We have seen requests for asylum increase dramatically in most countries in the European Union . 
Everyone is agreed that the problem transcends the control , reception and repatriation capacities of the individual countries and that we need to join forces . 
We must go beyond words - as he has also said - because words do not solve the problem . 
We must do more to support the countries from which these people came and improve the conditions there . 
Everyone will complain and Europe will not have made any progress . 
I have experienced this first hand . 
We might be advised to take a leaf out of Canada &apos;s book . 
I should like to point out that honourable Members of this Parliament are invited to attend the various conferences that will be held within this framework . 
I would like to highlight what I think are the two most relevant points . 
The discussion has been postponed until October , but the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has pulled no punches in this respect . 
The appropriation must be kept at the level decided at Berlin . 
They have failed to do that . 
This point must be stressed , although the report also stresses the difficulty of finding sources of funding for that most remarkable and certainly important operation to be carried out in Kosovo . 
It must be seen as highly negative . 
They are proposing to move funds intended for agriculture to foreign policy and these proposals have not even been accepted by the United Kingdom . 
I would like to remind you , ladies and gentlemen , that in order to topple Pinochet , the European Community spent EUR 10 million . 
I would like to ask when the country holding the presidency of the Council will present its own point of view regarding how the flexibility clause can be implemented with respect to the second pillar . 
I should like to remind you that the role of the presidency is to successfully oversee the running of the IGC and not state the positions adopted by the various Member States . 
I would like to think that the Council , were they to receive a proposal from the Commission , would behave emphatically in support of digital radio . 
I should like to remind you that digital audiobroadcasting has existed since 1989 and the main problem that still remains to be solved relates to the fact that the receivers are still too large . 
No one is saying that Austria has been expelled from the European Union , something I stressed earlier . 
I would remind you that Greece lifted its veto against Turkish candidacy on the basis of promises by the other 14 Member States that Turkey would change its tune . 
I had understood the question perfectly . 
We shall need this , as , with eastward enlargement , Parliament &apos; s other expenses will increase . 
We have had a first reading in the Council , this is our first reading , and we should very much like to conclude matters on the basis of this first reading . 
I should like to extend my warmest thanks to both him and Mr Virrankoski for the supplementary budget , which applies mainly to Parliament and the Council . 
I should like to address another two parts of the supplementary budget . 
I should like to ask the Council to be a little more circumspect in its announcements and promises in the future unless , at the same time , it intends to tell us what we should cross out elsewhere . 
I would like to raise three issues about this . 
We have drafted a report in response to four Commission documents , the basic aim of which is to make one overall market out of fifteen individual markets . 
A model has been worked out here whereby the costs of cross - border trade are paid into funds . The money is paid in by the national grid operators and paid out to those providing through lines . 
I am referring to social and environmental concerns which this Parliament has always supported but which are not yet sufficiently articulated in the energy sector with reference to the single market . 
We must meet our Kyoto commitments : we have international treaties and obligations under them and it is time that we took this more seriously . 
It would be very regrettable if Japan , for example , were to surpass us in the new technologies which we have developed and researched over many years . 
Liberalization should apply to all energy sectors , particularly the nuclear sector where there are huge subsidies from some states . 
I have discussed this with Commissioner Monti . 
I would like to recognise that the fears of the pessimists that liberalization would lead to cuts in security of supply have been confounded . 
I would support the rapporteur in stressing that competition does not prevent Member States from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on operators . 
We must continue to include it within the broad consideration of renewable energy resources . 
We are going to deal with the social aspects of the electricity sector and its public service element . 
I should like to mention one last point . One criticism heard time and again is : has the whole idea of public - sector services gone to the dogs ? 
We have shown willing and , if the Council shows willing , we will be able to reach a compromise . 
They have struck a right balance between both extremes and I would advocate - to use Mr Swoboda &apos;s term - that " third way " should be applied to the railways in Europe . 
I would like to add a brief , technical comment . 
I would invite the services to reconsider their view , because my amendment is also related to Amendment No 24 regarding Article 12 , which was declared admissible . 
History has taught us that excessive interference by governments has hampered the necessary flexibility . 
We should avoid building complex structures around tasks emanating from regulations within the sector . 
I have seen at first hand the continual bombings of the north - south railway lines over the past 30 years due to the Troubles . 
Nobody should have to tolerate competitors on their infrastructure that refuse or are unable to grant the same access at home . 
Who can argue with that ? 
I would recommend that the House also reject the amendment along these lines proposed by the UEN . 
We must reduce and harmonise the huge administrative costs , including within the Member States , which is why the Commission proposal to simplify the procedure is most welcome . 
We must cut the red tape within the EU , so that our citizens are able to put their skills to good use in every Member State . 
I should like a reply on this and I should like the Minutes to be corrected . 
I shall look into this . 
I shall enquire at the services into the exact course of events . 
I would ask the President if he could instruct the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control to look into this issue , because it should be dealt with very quickly . 
I should like , however , to sound a note of caution . 
I should make it clear that the ECB does not rely on a single econometric model but uses an extensive set of models . 
The public is being flooded with information about the euro and I think that the information is not always eye - catching and informative . 
We must maintain this process - this scope for interpretation . 
One can understand why the child is sickly , under the circumstances . 
It will be because the dollar has fallen . 
I will end by thanking Mr Radwan for this excellent report and say that I agree with the greater part of its content . 
I would like to have seen all these points included in the report . 
We have seen the external value of the euro plummet . 
We would be against increased inflation , but that is not yet on the cards although , as I say , the risks will be upside . 
The question was asked what will the ECB do if that creates problems for Denmark ? 
We have talked a lot about the advantages of the euro and of economic and monetary union . 
I would like to use my last one and a half minutes to say something about priorities . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee responsible for including our remarks on this in the conclusions . 
The information must come in cooperation with the Member States , but what , in my opinion , is of most importance is that NGOs are kept fully aware of what is happening . 
A study should be carried out on this , something which is also called for in the Karas report . 
The euro must become part of education across the board . 
We must ensure that these administrations play a significant role . 
It would be both compromising and embarrassing for the EU if the campaign were allowed to be carried out as planned . 
The changeover will require an effort . 
Everyone will need to adjust , everyone will need to make an effort . 
The debate will be resumed this afternoon . 
It was expected that the framework agreement would be concluded in December of last year . 
One could argue that much of this framework agreement only clarifies existing provisions under the present EU Treaties . 
I should like to begin by correcting a misunderstanding . 
We should be legally entitled to obtain documents when they are no longer within the confines of the Commission . 
I should like , if you will allow me , to make two basic comments . 
It was said that surveillance took place anyway , it was even added , some even said that it was important to have surveillance systems in order to track down serious criminals . 
We have been told that liberalising rail transport will give us far more services . 
We should have acknowledged here that European railway systems are all different , and their diversity merits the derogations proposed . 
No one should have ignored these issues in the vote we cast today . 
This cooperation should have been sought a long time ago . 
I would have liked to have seen all Members being treated equally and no one having more or less rights - that should have been the starting point ! 
Anyone can see that this is where the ambiguity of the European construction lies . 
We must defend the true Europe , the truly European Europe ! 
This report can be used as a basis for further action . 
I should like to point out the following so that we avoid using a sledgehammer to crack a nut by succumbing to the risk of making the scope of the directive so vast that it becomes ineffectual . 
We must take steps to amend this regulation . 
Funds must be found elsewhere , but this does not necessarily create a need for &apos; fresh money &apos; from the Member States . 
It would be a gross abuse of the democratic process for the Commission to undertake a euro propaganda campaign in those countries before referenda on the currency take place . 
I would like to make some comments relating to the various points mentioned in the debate . 
We must ensure that they are not exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable health risks and acknowledge the public concern on this issue . 
I can understand that ; emotions run high where children are involved . 
We should be looking for materials and substances for children &apos;s toys where there is no doubt about safety whatsoever . 
We must take the precautionary approach . 
I do hope that does not mean that we are going to see a European Union regulation restricting us all to living in bungalows . 
You can cry wolf once too often . 
I would be very pleased if we could ban tobacco , which we have classified as dangerous . 
These materials have been in widespread use around the world for forty years , yet there is no evidence of any kind that any damage has ever been done to anyone . 
It has bowdlerised their reports , it has pressured them into changing their positions . 
We should wait until these tests are available and then , if we must , impose migration limits . 
The ban is based on the opinion of the Scientific Committee that toys containing certain phthalates pose a risk to children &apos;s health when held in the mouth for extensive periods of time . 
I have presented the entire discussion and the entire dispute surrounding the regulation . 
We could argue all day about which beef is the safest , but the fact is that once labelling is in place the consumer will be able to decide . 
We are working on a very tight timescale on this legislation , which is due to come into effect on 1 September . 
I must admit , Commissioner Fischler , that you have slammed on all the brakes - if I may put it thus - both skilfully and in bad faith in order to delay labelling . 
The argument being presented , as we have heard , is that we should not ask too much of consumers . 
An attempt is being made then to withhold information on the grounds that consumers are ostensibly stupid . 
We should provide consumers with information about the origin of the beef , offer them certainty and take consumer protection seriously . 
I would have liked to simply approve the common position without further ado . 
Meat should remain traceable , whether at the production or sales stage . 
The label should contain information on the animal &apos; s region of origin , where it is born , fattened up and slaughtered . 
This directive will ensure not only that the meat on our tables can be traced back to its origins but also that the consumer is provided with clear , essential information . 
We have discussed this at length in committee . 
We have made good progress with beef labelling in Germany . 
I was incensed when , as late as yesterday , the Commission could not advise us as to exactly what would be involved in &apos; category &apos; . 
You can put in controls that will be so bureaucratic that they just will not work , so we have to concentrate on what is workable . 
This issue has been scrutinised in great detail both here in Parliament and also by the Council . 
You will see that the Council has taken your comments on board and has tightened up the wording of the rules , and has in fact made them even stricter than stipulated in the original Commission proposal . 
I have been involved in the meat industry for a number of years myself . The matter is not yet satisfactorily resolved . 
I would like to ask him four questions . 
What is being transferred is the Petersberg tasks alone , with of course the institutional and administrative mechanisms which are at the disposal of the European Union . 
We have proposed new solutions in draft form , which have also recently been put forward to the Commissioner . 
We have received assurances on this from two different sources . 
I would ask Members to limit themselves to new questions or supplementary questions . 
I have been waiting for that reply since 2 February and I simply can not understand why it has taken the Commission so long to come up with that negative . 
I would like to ask a supplementary question : what is the position on funds already spent ? 
We have been able to do it in a fashion which we are quite happy with . 
We can confirm that the principle is being applied at national level and , at the same time , that it is not being applied in a region where it is needed . 
These negotiations are progressing normally and I trust that we will be able to approve certain programmes by the end of August . 
I can understand that you do not want to comment until you have investigated the complaints but I would urge you to put pressure on the Irish government . 
I would like to ask you , Commissioner , are you going to push much further with the Irish government and explore every possible avenue . 
I would like to mention that two qualifications need to be made . 
I should like to put two questions to you . 
We will be looking at this as soon as we have evaluated all the information about these accidents . 
I shall waive the remainder of my speaking time , which should certainly put me in the President &apos;s good books ! 
We should be making them our number one priority , hence the importance of the incentives our rapporteur was just talking about . 
I would urge the Commission , too , to take this on board . 
We must find an effective and manageable solution to that problem . 
It must be made clear that EMAS accreditation is intended as a reward for those companies which are the real engines of ecological progress . 
It might be said that it is a minimum requirement that environmental legislation should be respected . 
I would emphasise that the common position is flexible in this respect . 
The proposal was presented by the European Commission in December 1998 . 
It will be the first legal instrument to set a limit on concentrations of a carcinogenic substance . 
I would find it useful if the Commissioner , time - permitting , could comment on this briefly . 
The review will form part of the first report on the new integrated programme for clean air , which the Commission is in the process of drawing up . 
A recommendation will do no good . 
They get inspected . Action is taken . 
A recommendation will achieve something . 
A directive might mean that some Member States will have great difficulty complying with it in its entirety from its coming into force , and this was not deemed to be practically or psychologically desirable by the Commission . 
I would ask the President , since Mr Cunha is not present , to allow me to use his two minutes , as he told me previously . 
We have calculated that , if we let every speaker overrun for just 20 seconds , we should still be sitting here at one o&apos;clock in the morning . 
I would like to tell Mrs Redondo that the delegation of Spanish Socialists is going to support her amendments . 
We are going to support them because we agree with all the arguments which Mrs Redondo has put forward , and for other reasons which she has not had time to explain . 
I would like to give just two recent examples . 
They must be supported , so that they are as successful as possible and so that we can do more to protect the forests as a result . 
I do wish to point out , however , that in some areas we have proposed amendments which we consider to be extremely important . 
We have concentrated on the key points . 
Everyone has made compromises in order to try and improve still further a programme which was already very good from the outset . 
We are opposed to increasing the amounts proposed by the Commission , as recommended by the rapporteur . 
She has been a great rapporteur and it is thanks to her that the draft Parliament is submitting to us today is a draft which improves the Commission &apos; s text . 
They will contribute to achieving our goal : the creation of a strong content industry in Europe . 
I have drawn on many ideas from my fellow delegates , but also from many institutions in the sphere I mentioned above . 
I would advise you not to pursue the amendments tabled by the PSE . 
We must create the basis for the essential establishment of lifelong learning . 
We should use what we have , comparing the knowledge we each possess and then operating on the basis of that knowledge . 
We shall vote on our report tomorrow . 
I do think the services of this House should work more carefully on such key questions and it really is intolerable that despite my criticism yesterday the Minutes have got the text wrong again ! 
I would ask you get to the bottom of this matter , to sort out this most important aspect of the directive and to please correct this in the English translation ! 
You may be interested to know that the same trend has continued to the present year . 
I do hope that the European Parliament will support the Ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively . 
These conclusions can be drawn from the ever increasing number of complaints to the Ombudsman and from the nature of these complaints . 
I would like to address a big thank you to the Ombudsman and his office , as well as to the secretariat at the Committee on Petitions which , as we know , is currently working under difficult conditions . 
I would like to make one more important point . 
It is treated abominably in relation to translations , which are down at the bottom of the list . 
It can be seen from the report that it is the Commission that is the subject of the majority of the investigations that have been undertaken , 77 percent to be precise . 
I would like to highlight the fact that this report emphasises that all EU institutions and bodies must establish a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour . 
I must insist that this is why we give such importance to the work of both the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions ; so that the institutions may work properly . 
I should like to stress that this draft regulation is now before Parliament . 
We must address this issue now . 
It will double again in the coming ten years . 
It can be compared to rearranging buckets under the tap to stop a flood without considering the possibility of at least turning down the tap a little to reduce the flow of water . 
We should tailor our policy accordingly . 
The report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the Commission . 
Flights were cancelled , and many were severely delayed . 
I must say that it is truly impressive to see them at work because they are responsible for everybody &apos; s lives , for the lives of anyone in a plane at any one time . 
It might be wondered whether new regulations would mean very much in practice . 
We are asking for the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding women to be extended . 
This report will enable the European Parliament to move ahead now . 
We must know whether the legislation is working . 
Society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs . 
We must be able to provide the means for breast - feeding to be compatible with work . 
The rapporteur has set this all to one side , effectively saying it is irrelevant , claiming that the original directive just did not go far enough . 
She is proposing solutions for which there is no health and safety problem . 
I must accept these criticisms since they are true and are based on real facts . 
We have achieved it by adopting this procedure for the case in point . 
It will be hard to explain to the citizens of Europe why EUR 14 million of taxes were squandered on the Fléchard case and why Parliament is letting itself be fobbed off with empty promises . 
The debate has focused on a few specific points and in particular on the indication of the category of animal on the label . 
These plans shall be available to the public under broader and wider information campaigns which are envisaged under this proposal . 
I would remind you that this was not the case . 
We must ensure the free movement of persons . 
We must put an end to immigration policies that turn immigrants into some sort of subhumans with no rights , if not into illegal immigrants preyed on by the police . 
It was voted upon on Monday and this House , by sovereign right , drew up a framework for it . 
The concerns expressed are very real . 
We must oblige them and , through political action by Parliament , assert our determination to see this matter , which has lasted 50 years , finally resolved . 
I would like to be totally clear , even at the risk of appearing antagonistic . 
I would ask the House to support this resolution . 
It would be beneficial if we could act under one banner and with one voice . 
Hooliganism has transcended all borders , both literally and figuratively speaking . 
The journalists were prevented from doing their job and were beaten up , thrown to the ground and arrested . 
We should be allowed to go there , and we are going to go and have a good fight " , instead of watching the wonderful festival of football that it should have been . 
Those who are identified and on file as having committed assault must be banned from entering stadiums during major sporting events . 
I will end , Mr President , by hoping that the content and pace of my speech have been as you requested , that is , on a human scale . 
I would have far preferred discussing a text which strikes more of a balance . 
What is happening is that victims , innocent people , women and children , people without any power , without any kind of control whatsoever , are being persecuted . 
What does concern us at the moment is the abandonment of that area , which we have begun to notice over the last year , with the new Commission . 
We must remember for example that the European Union is the main foreign investor in Venezuela and that we have many cultural and social ties with those countries . 
I can understand people being impatient because progress is so slow in some areas . 
He should be pleased about that , as I and many others are . 
What is known in Austria about Mr Pelinka &apos; s resignation is the fact that various versions are being circulated by various people . 
We have had a look at this and as far as we are aware there is no rule which stops anybody signing another resolution . 
We will look into the matter , but there does not appear to be a rule at the present time . 
We could carry on this way , but we would be wasting time . 
We will look into this matter . 
I would like to hear whether this is actually a legal procedure for us to be voting on now . 
I will make sure that the President is fully apprised of that and that is so done . 
The rapporteur proposes increasing the sums allocated to both of these programmes , whereas the Commission proposal seeks to cut them drastically . 
I shall conclude by pointing out that , as far as the case of toy safety is concerned , the regulations regarding EC markings are too ambiguous and should be clarified as soon as possible . 
These funds would be much better spent on the reconstruction of Kosovo , a European contribution of aid that has still not received its budgetary settlement after a year of internal budgetary opposition within the EU . 
I could carry on like this at great length . 
It is gratifying that the efforts to create a liberalised energy sector now look seriously as if they are to bear fruit . 
I would like to make it clear to Mrs Peijs that I voted against this report . 
It is known that today the military have seized , in France for example , 80 % of the available airspace . 
This hypocrisy is intended to conceal the fact that the legislator is more concerned to reassure employers that their factories may be operated profitably than to guarantee the health and safety of employees . 
Experience has demonstrated that reducing employability and " adaptability " to guideline Community priorities on employment issues renders any protection basically non - existent and cancels any individual arrangements in practice . 
Women must be protected against any wrongful dismissal and their former wage must be guaranteed . 
We will take the pressure off quite substantially if we try to make the best use of all modes of transport and combine them in the best way we can . 
Industry was asked to raise practical issues which could , in their view , obstruct the development of short sea shipping . 
I would like to underline a few aspects . 
The sector is suffering from excessive red tape . 
These services should embrace all multi - modal transport services and should , in this way , counteract the fragmentation of the present services . 
I would like to highlight the fact that in the last two years there have been a series of actions which have had positive effects on short sea shipping . 
The goods are unloaded at the point where they can reach their destination via the shortest possible overland route . 
It would be sensible to engage in more research and above all to set up demonstration projects in the field of intermodal transport . 
I would add , though , that for environmental sustainability we should look upon connections between peninsulas in the same way . 
I would like to highlight a number of aspects . 
We can see the different problems quite clearly from different areas of the European Union . 
It would be even more romantic if you would invite me to accompany her . 
You might be able to submit this to the Bureau for their consideration . 
I will take the opportunity to make a suggestion , despite there not being many people listening ( there are only around six MEPs in the House ) . 
One might imagine that such an organisation would escape some of the bureaucratic problems . 
You must be aware of the problems experienced by a good number of smaller NGOs in being able to respond to a number of invitations to tender . 
I will answer them , because this matter is within my direct remit . 
I would ask you to correct this . 
I would like to inform you that , as you are aware , yesterday a tragic road accident occurred in Spain , near Soria , in which 2 drivers and 25 teenagers died . 
We have taken the floor on many occasions . 
I would be surprised if today we were not in a position to do the same . 
It was taken to court in India . 
These crimes must be made unprofitable ; they can not be allowed to have merely financial consequences . 
I would like to make one final remark about the sensitive matter of the relationship between the State and pollution . 
It would be useful if this issue could be included in the White Paper on environmental liability . 
They will continue to inflict damage on the environment when the rewards far exceed the punishment . 
We should try to set an example because the environment is a really important criterion for future generations . 
We would need it to be defined precisely . 
I should like the Commissioner to take this issue seriously on board and ensure that we get something done about the current situation . 
We have established that as yet , Europol has no authority whatsoever to act . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 7 July 2000 . 
I would ask you to speak to Air France . 
I shall write this evening to the Chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Committee , so that he can look into the situation . 
I have received confirmation that the amendments are not ready today because some of them still have to be clarified . 
An attempt was made to finish it , for the second time , during the previous parliamentary term , and it is yet to be finished because it is still facing certain problems . 
People are acting now as though the proposals put forward by the British Government were something entirely new . 
I would like this proposal to make it possible to include the Temelin resolution on the agenda . 
We must remember that the ratio between the per capita income of the European Union and the MEDA countries is 1 to 10 , that is to say a very considerable gap . 
We are talking about a population of around 230 million people which , given the current rate of growth , will reach 300 million in 10 or 12 years time . 
It would be appropriate to speed up the signing of the association agreements , which to date have been signed only with 7 countries . 
A distinction has been made , as I requested , but it is still insufficient . 
I would urge the House to support the two amendments tabled to the Piétrasanta report in the name of this group . 
I would urge my colleagues to support these amendments along with the two excellent reports under consideration . 
You will be judged on enlargement towards the east , but also on whether you create your own room for manoeuvre in external policy . 
We should secure this position and defend it ! 
We are taking action on water management but we are not , I regret to say , in a position to support the micro - project proposals because again we lack the staff to manage them properly . 
It will be apparent from what I have said that we are thinking very much along the same lines . 
We must have real EU embassies that are at least some sort of a match for the United States embassies , especially in areas where it is the European Union that bears most responsibility . 
It would have been better to address the crux of the matter and I am sorry that the report has not done this . 
What would happen then if someone fleeing from persecution were to seek asylum or help from the EU embassy if it did not suit the EU &apos;s interests to support him or her ? 
We are opposed to measures which seek to convert national governments into powerless county councils , which is why we shall be voting against the proposal . 
The embassy can provide them with a service in their own language . 
I can say without any reservation that the Commission has benefited from the report and it is bound to make a permanent impression on the way we run our external service in the future . 
Members will have seen the communication on the development of the external service that was adopted by the Commission on 18 July . 
These difficulties were compounded by the introduction of more stringent financial procedures needed to guarantee the proper use of the resources managed by the Commission . 
It will allow the Commission to bring this programme to an end in a responsible manner and to launch renewed and improved initiatives for promotion of the private sector in developing countries . 
I should like to expand on two problematic issues . 
It should be noted here that the regional approach adopted by the existing DIPECHO instrument offers a possible solution . 
We should continue to pursue the positive initiatives here and use alternative sources of funding to defray the costs of informing the public . 
We must be more forceful in our efforts to put the issue of debt relief for Third World countries on a permanent footing . 
We must address this problem urgently . 
You may be certain , Commissioner Patten , that this report is of the greatest importance to Parliament . 
We are delighted by the broad welcome which has been given to the Commission &apos;s communication on its assessment and future plans for the Community &apos;s humanitarian activities . 
We will address this through country strategies which bring together the various types of assistance , emergency , developmental and so on , as quickly as it is feasible to do so . 
I should like to end with just one reflection . 
I would like to remind Members that a political union based on democracy and human rights would not have allowed the terrorist totalitarianism of the 20s and 30s to emerge in Europe . 
I shall welcome them once they are here and , as you know , they will be making their official speeches to the House at 11.30 a.m. 
We must live up to these expectations and this gesture , which I see as a sign of trust and hope , deserves to be welcomed . 
The parties had departed so far from their initial positions as to give the impression that it was still too early to hope for a compromise . 
The progress achieved owes a great deal to their determination to bring the positions of both sides closer together and move the negotiations forward . 
I should like to say in this context that , in our view , a Palestinian state will inevitably emerge , but it must be a viable , peaceful and democratic state . 
We will continue to do all we can to achieve this . 
We are approaching a deadline . 
The negotiations must be resumed by means of an open , direct and genuine dialogue , and Europe has a major part to play in this ! 
He would kill them en masse and throw them into the sea . 
I would like to end by suggesting that we could use regional cooperation as a solution to make a European contribution right now before the peace process comes to an end . 
It is makes no sense for them not to be able to go back : Palestinians , who were born there , are not even allowed to visit it . 
It has been proposed that it become the capital of both States . 
I should like to explain briefly the four main objectives which we have set ourselves . 
The presidency will work in the Council to have the accession partnership for this country adopted and will continue to conduct a detailed analysis of the acquis . 
It will work especially hard to have the regulation on the economic and social development of Turkey adopted . 
A summit will be held in Seoul on 20 and 21 October and we also hope to resume the dialogue between the EU and ASEAN . 
We must see - indeed Mr Patten made this very point - that we contribute a large proportion of the world &apos; s international aid . 
We have had our first taste of this only a year on . 
It has come to my attention that a group of parliamentarians from the EPP Group visited the USA in July . 
I can make this programme available to you . 
We shall correct this mistake and keep you informed of the situation . 
It must be possible for such training to take place as , for example , in - service or on the job training . 
We have abstained from voting because the aims of the report are unclear . 
I will re - read the point that I wanted to make . 
It has come to my attention that a group of EPP Members visited the USA in July . 
I would ask you as a matter of urgency to investigate whether Parliament &apos;s rules have been broken . 
You can understand that the difference is a very substantial one . 
I would like to amend it . 
I would like to amend what is in the verbatim report . 
You must record the sense of what I said yesterday . 
I would urge you to arrange this accordingly . 
I shall be very brief , Mr President , as I only wish to discuss one very specific aspect of the European Union &apos; s external actions . 
I would emphasise one aspect in particular : we need , in this context , to have our own independent strategies that confirm the European Union &apos; s position in this field . 
We will revisit this theme at a later stage . 
What will be the content of their jobs in ten years &apos; time if the EU continues on its present course ? 
This figure is based on the only evaluation of needs currently available , set out in the 1999 World Bank report on rebuilding Kosovo . 
I would like briefly to take up the matter of Serbia , which you also mentioned in your speech . 
I am standing firm on this : by the end of 2001 we should have EUR 800 million more at our disposal for the Western Balkans than we do at present . 
I have taken a very detailed look at the promotion systems of all the institutions , and I have noticed that the Court of Justice has now followed suit and established a promotion model based on demonstrable merit . 
I will propose to the Committee on Budgets that we redeploy the Court of Auditors &apos; proposal . 
The committee has asked for an increase in the funding required to cover the travel and subsistence costs incurred by regional representatives of candidate countries attending plenary sittings as observers . 
We have placed part of this money for the financial year 2000 in reserve . 
No one can forget the testimony of Judge Edwin Cameron , a white , homosexual , HIV positive man on the bench of the South African High Court . 
We are convinced of that . 
These opportunities must be exploited immediately , and the Commission intends to play its part . 
The meeting will consider how a comprehensive approach at national and international level might tackle these three diseases and how we can make a difference . 
I am thinking of the development of the International Therapeutic Solidarity Fund launched to raise international funds to give poor countries access to the new therapies , which must expand . 
I would like to end by drawing attention to the great pervading silence and condemning it : I refer to the campaigns which aim to deter people from using condoms on religious grounds . 
They are requesting people not to use condoms in the name of life , but that is to condemn the children to certain death . 
I have received seven motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure , to wind up the debate on this statement . 
I can tell you that the presence on the Durban platform of the Director General of WHO , the European Commission representative and the President of the Health Council created immense hope . 
We will meet the challenge together . 
We must denounce campaigns of disinformation , combat obscurantism , but not abandon any field of action . 
You are suggesting that we use it twice . 
This centre would be a tool to help identify and analyse change in order to anticipate its consequences and ensure positive management of those developments . 
The centre should identify and collect information relating to economic , technological , and labour market developments . 
It must be organised so as to fulfil its missions , and in our opinion that means a light , flexible structure . 
It is missing the point and I hope even that at the eleventh hour you will recognise a good idea when you see it , withdraw your resolution and support ours . 
I do hope this time is the last time . 
I have received 7 motions for resolutions to close this statement , tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
We have wasted time and money and we have raised expectations which will not be fulfilled . 
I have listened carefully to the debate which has taken place in this Chamber . 
I can give you this summary table if you wish , Mrs Gutiérrez - Cortines . 
It must be considered , however , that if this is made a requirement within the European Union , then this is the requirement within the body to which the candidate countries wish and are going to accede . 
I should like to ask a follow - up question : What conditions are being laid down for in fact providing this aid ? 
I should like to draw the attention of the Members of the European Parliament to the fact that a substantial effort has already been devoted towards informing the public about the Council debates organised . 
I should like to see just a little of this courage in Turkey with a view to finding a real solution to the Kurdish problem too . 
I should like to take the opportunity to re - emphasise that we await a firm commitment on the part of Turkey to continuing with the process of reform that has been begun . 
I should like briefly to illustrate this by way of three examples . 
What could protect diversity and pluralism better than a " universal service " ? 
We have tabled an amendment calling for a cost / benefit analysis of what has been done to date . 
We must be careful that , for example , competitive aspects do not have the unfortunate effect of undermining our national right to define the kind of public service we want to provide . 
We will succeed , Mrs Junker , because we think that it is very important , not only to know how to read , write and add up , but also to know how to read images . 
It should be noted that , within the framework of the current directive , a contact committee has been created to examine all aspects of audiovisual policy linked to the directive . 
It should retain its freedom , acquired during the Uruguay round , to draw up and implement financial and regulatory provisions in the audiovisual sector with a view in particular to safeguarding cultural diversity . 
I should like to thank all the interpreters for staying behind . 
We could have drawn some very useful information from this survey on the socio - economic circumstances of students on Erasmus courses at that time . 
I would like to end by thanking those who helped me with this report , especially my researcher Nicky Smith , who waded through every single statistic . 
The report has shown that the reasons for this are both structural and cultural , as well as economic to quite a significant degree . 
I have asked the ministers to make sure that a larger grant is given to the poorest students . 
It would mean that only the direct beneficiaries of the agreement negotiated by the European Commission would pay for it , on behalf of the fifteen Member States of the European Union . 
Both agreements have been renewed regularly . 
Everybody must do their duty and fulfil their obligations . 
I should like specifically to mention at this point that a premium is to be introduced for the purpose of supporting the Guinean authorities in improving fish stocks in Guinea &apos; s exclusive economic zone . 
I would ask you to insist that Mr Murphy either accuse me outright or apologise . 
I would like us today to send a message to the people who live amongst us that they can do so with their right to live as a family recognised . 
We will listen to the debate because our overwhelming desire is to get the bones of this proposal through . 
No one would dispute the fact that families have the right to live together . 
I should point out that this draft directive extends family reunification provisions beyond those that have been in force in the Member States to date . 
I would be very interested to see how you intend to justify today &apos; s decision to your electorate . 
We are basing our approach on a principle which is debatable , but without any evidence to the contrary I believe it can be demonstrated . 
I should like to thank all the Members who have taken part in the debate . 
I should like the final opinion of Parliament to have as broad a support - base as possible . 
I will start by filling in some of the background and the content of the directives . 
These measures must be concomitant with simplifying administrative procedures and providing documents free of charge . 
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur . 
We are dealing here with a long - overdue overhaul of a number of directives relating to rights of residents of the non - economically active . 
It would give rise to so - called marriages of convenience or false marriages , and that amounts to fraud .. 
I can assure you that the Commission always intervenes - and tries to do so strictly under all circumstances - even if its intervention is not always obvious . 
The proposal was thought to be heading in the right direction but in many areas , it did not go far enough . 
These governments are giving environmental assessment and Europe a bad name for what are entirely excesses of their own making and they need to look carefully at their domestic policies . 
We must try to create a system in which we think in environmental terms from the very beginning , even when it comes to economic problems . 
Ports are required to draw up waste - processing plans and to ensure that there are waste - processing plants or organisations that implement these plans . 
We can go along with this . 
We have ensured that Member States will be required to introduce compensation measures , in case ships are forced to remain in ports unnecessarily , simply because there are no waste disposal facilities available , or they are inadequate . 
I would have been surprised if Mr Piecyk had not wanted to speak for three minutes ! 
It had been watered down , and I believe Parliament has secured coherent measures for all concerned 
We should challenge them to increase the number of checks . 
This procedure has proven to be worthwhile in practice . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur for having invested so much energy in this project . 
I should like to say , however , that the agreement is in certain respects a disappointment in the perspective of what has happened in the Baltic . 
It would have been very sad if we had been unable to reach this agreement , which was so longed - for by everyone . 
We must accept that all the groups have the right to express themselves in the House , but the text , in principle , belongs to the groups which negotiated it . 
It would be better if , instead of applying an overall EU solution , this matter could be regulated according to which particular sea was involved . 
This fee would help finance 90 % of the cost of these facilities . 
It should be further developed and deepened . 
I shall do my best to ensure that the vote on the MEDA budget is another stage confirming the importance we attach to the Euro - Mediterranean partnership . 
They have produced a text that is close to the European Commission &apos; s basic proposal which , in my opinion , is on the whole quite satisfactory . 
We have been pleased to vote and to support this report even though , for a variety of reasons , the United Kingdom Government has exercised its right to opt out of this initiative . 
We are forced to hang around for half an hour after the votes to say that we are submitting our explanation of vote in writing . 
It is seeking to support the interests of European big business , to conquer new markets , and to support the euro , even by taking military action . 
We must strengthen the provisions on the circulation of European works and on independent production in order to make them more effective . 
Everyone is agreed on welcoming this initiative , thanks to which 90 000 students every year take up the opportunity to study abroad . 
It must be admitted , however , that the participation rate is still low , given that this programme involves 18 Member States . 
The survey does provide us with some answers . 
I would add that the extreme right &apos; s fiercely racist opposition to this report confirms our views in this direction . 
You can write to the services to correct your words . 
It will be interesting to hear how you envisage your service developing in this direction . 
I would ask fellow Members , when considering the latest raft of telecoms measures in the weeks to come , not to allow this to go unnoticed or for that matter unchallenged . 
I am thinking of the Echelon affair , which is very much related to this kind of issue . 
The Internet must continue to be a means of communication for all . 
We are calling for the EU to introduce binding social clauses into the mergers approvals process . 
These cases have increased dramatically in number recently . 
That decision was based on a great many considerations , including some input from the trade unions , although this in no way led us to depart from regulations . 
You will appreciate that I can not say very much now . 
The auctions will increase the number of mobile telephone operators in the Union . 
Research involving cloning techniques for reproductive or therapeutic ends is therefore quite explicitly excluded . 
This research is being carried out with respect for fundamental ethical principles and for the relevant national regulations . 
I should like to emphasise that the ethical aspects are , as a matter of course , taken into account when proposals are assessed and that a thorough ethical review is undertaken for proposals involving more sensitive ethical issues . 
I must warn you that President Prodi will have to leave us at 4.35 p.m. to travel to New York for the Millennium meeting . 
I can understand how the Commission might be rather irritated by the way the Council sometimes approaches the issue of enlargement . 
I would like to thank Commissioner Verheugen for having had the courage to utter the word . 
I can understand why the Swiss do not wish to join the Union before such fundamental rights are also guaranteed to them as citizens joining the European Union . 
I would urge you once again to clarify the situation for us . 
I must confess that I have also found this to be absolutely true in my own experience . 
I have been asked to withdraw this evaluation . 
This process was concluded as early as the end of 1993 . 
We would like there to be in - depth studies of new issues thrown up by the life sciences , on the condition that it is clear that the positions adopted by Parliament can not be renegotiated . 
We would like to see a calm discussion of a vital problem , covering the opportunities opened up by genetic engineering and also the lines that can not be crossed in this field . 
I shall end , Mr President , by asking you , by asking all of us , to take this task seriously . 
We must respect the there are deep and genuine public concerns on both sides of this argument and this is what our resolution tries to do . 
I do wonder why this option is taken , despite all the ethical concerns which exist worldwide . 
Some scientists have taken the lunacy of Hitler &apos;s fascism from the battlefield and are prepared to validate it in the laboratory . 
The impression has been given that only reproductive cloning is banned . 
They will continue to gain in importance in research , and in terms of their many applications . 
We must make biotechnology and genetic engineering , but above all bioethics , one of the European Parliament &apos; s key concerns . 
We must be aware that biotechnology is bound up with what is presumed to be the greatest revolution in medicine and technology . 
We must appoint the best experts to advise the Council and ensure that there is consistency in the legislation across the Member States . 
We must get to grips with all the ethical issues raised by medicine , technology and science , as a matter of urgency . 
We must stop and reflect on the possible implications of upsetting the laws of nature . 
It would have been interesting to hear their arguments too , because I am quite sure that they must have had a few thoughts on the matter . 
It would be entirely appropriate to discuss this kind of issue during this debate , because we have the privilege of being in the company of delegates from the four corners of the European Union . 
We should endeavour to leave this behind . 
Everyone could cite examples of this . 
I must say that his comments were very cautious and carefully measured on this issue . 
I have had a case described to me where the same paperwork was submitted on three separate occasions , but the Commission still maintained that it had never received this paperwork . 
I have encountered problems of this kind before , not just in the drugs sphere , but with many other partners that work with the Commission and seek co - financing . 
These checks have revealed certain shortcomings in the compliance of some Member States with the Community legislation . 
I would refer the honourable Member to the letter dated 20 June which she and a number of her colleagues received from President Prodi on this very subject . 
We will continue to insist that the charter foresees the prohibition of the employment of children . 
I will answer with pleasure . 
I will consider your suggestions with an open mind . 
I was gunning for Portugal for as long as I possibly could , though . 
It will function in this form for three years . 
The directive was supposed to have come from the Commission for a reading in the European Parliament in July , and now we have heard that it is probably being postponed until September . 
I will be able to give you a more complete text at a future sitting . 
I am bound to say that their contribution to this dialogue was extremely significant . 
I would like to point out that there has been no judgement from the Court of Justice on this specific issue . 
I would remind the House that the Commission presented Parliament and the Council with a report on the common market organisation of tobacco as early as 1996 . 
We will provide the European Parliament with a report on the functioning of the amended market organisation by 1 April 2002 . 
I have made these comments on many an occasion , as nothing rocks mankind so much as tobacco , which kills so many . 
We should be able to change their means of livelihood and keep them at that economic level where they can produce health products for all of us . 
We are deluding ourselves if we think we can control the problem from the supply side . 
We were faced with the problem of producing a rigorous definition of what we called good groundwater status . 
I would like to make two points to emphasise the importance of integrated water management : 
It would be a poor show if the legal texts did not contain the correct and necessary terminology . 
We have introduced rigid quotas , without which no progress can be made . 
I would thank the Commission and the Council and , once again , my fellow MEPs . 
It has been a pleasure to work with you . 
It would be quite alarming if Parliament were to exchange roles and , instead of making the running , hand over that role to its opponents . 
It should be noted that the Commission &apos;s initial proposal was presented in July 1997 . 
I am recommending that the EU uses the World Health Organisation &apos;s own guidelines for Community noise to develop new guidelines for daytime and night - time exposure by 2003 . 
The airlines have been getting away with not paying their way for over 50 years . 
I would hope in future the proposals from the Commission are thought through more carefully . 
I would like to highlight a few points . 
It should be introduced in such a way that the charge would be less for the unavoidable long haul journeys than it would for short flights for which there is a more environment - friendly alternative . 
I am referring to the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens and the regionalists . 
They may seem like a kind gesture , but these matters are better dealt with by the Member States . 
I would like to highlight a number of points . 
It would need to surrender part of the market to its competitors , and it is very questionable whether this would benefit our safety . 
We must try to reconcile interests that are not always easy to reconcile as air transport undoubtedly involves economic interests that are characterised by high investment costs which require a long life span before they are paid off . 
It should have been dealt with in the Council of Ministers for the Environment . 
We will be returning to the problems of noise when we deal with the directive on noise . 
I would ask you to consider that this does not yet mean the end of the negotiations . 
We are entering into the negotiations in the Conciliation Committee with the Council , and we shall then see what emerges . 
They may end up with quieter tyres that are expensive , that wear out quickly and that allow cars to slide off the road and crash into trees ! 
We are being far too prescriptive . 
The situation will become untenable , however , if there is an attempt to bring in changes too fast , as would seem to be the case on this occasion . 
I should like to refer to just two of them . 
It should be a complete , closed , precise list of named products . 
The colourants concerned are xylidines which may release any of the 21 cancer - causing amines listed in the proposed directive . 
This problem is being dealt with at European level because it relates not just to one particular country but to all Member States . 
I am proposing to table an amendment on that because , as the rapporteur knows , this is a subject particularly dear to the heart of UK Conservatives . 
I should like to make one further suggestion . 
We must take a close look at the issue of undeclared work in order to be able to combat its various causes efficiently . 
I would warn against over - simplification , three forms of which I would also at this point immediately oppose on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists . 
The time has come to bring together the fruits of this debate . 
We are working with the Member States to ensure that this is so . 
I shall tell Mrs de Palacio and Mr Monti that Parliament would like to hear them and , together with the Presidency , we shall decide on a suitable time . 
Athletes will be gathered there from all over the planet . 
Sport has permeated the whole of society . 
It would be useful if pharmaceutical products could be labelled with a &apos; doping - safe &apos; logo and a warning , and we would also welcome a more pro - active preventive policy . 
It would be better if they came to Parliament first and had our support . 
We are dealing with uncontrolled , unsustainable long - term speculation . 
The person involved has said that it is absurd , and the chairman of the club has said that it is in a very grave economic situation . 
It has managed to make FIFA begin to see sense . 
It has shown that it has the power to encourage disabled athletes to succeed . 
I have tabled an amendment to Mr Mennea &apos; s report , naturally with his consent , proposing a possible alternative to the transfer system . 
I would like to know whether you have a response to this . 
We might say that sport has got there first , that sport built structures before we were able to do so at political , economic or other levels . 
We would like to prevent that , which is why the Mennea report quite rightly calls for a reference to sport in Article 151 of the Treaty as an aspect of culture . 
They are programmed to achieve peak performances on particular days and during particular weeks , with ever shorter gaps in between , and they have to function like machines . 
It should be our job to give sport a new role in a changed society , with new and modern technical and medical facilities , and in this way to preserve its values . 
I would like to say the following on the transfer system . 
The time has come for politicians and sporting authorities to exercise their responsibility . 
I shall conclude by adding that sport must be brought within the scope of the Treaty Establishing the European Community . 
It was agreed at conciliation between the European Parliament and the fifteen Governments of the EU that this provision should now apply from 1 January 2007 . 
This contrast was highlighted once again during the debate on car tyres . 
The technology is developing incredibly fast now . 
I would like to stress once again that we have always said that this is about &apos; therapeutic cloning &apos; . 
It has been stressed that the European Parliament is standing by its decision to ban cloning , and consequently also to withhold all funding for clone research . 
They could open the door wider for technology whose implications are completely unknown . 
This decision was taken before giving due consideration to numerous crucial medical , moral and social issues . 
We support setting rigid limit values for emissions and noise pollution and the EU initiative being called for at the forthcoming 33rd ICAO Assembly . 
We should set up a European anti - doping agency instead of waiting for a world - wide agency to do what an individual state can not achieve . 
I have tried , drawing on my wealth of experience , to make the Members of the European Parliament understand this . 
These campaigns should be aimed primarily at young people and be conducted with the help of athletes with an established reputation . 
We are voting against recitals I , J and K and are abstaining from voting on paragraph 2 . 
We are abstaining from voting in the final vote . 
We will need to be involved in these operations , partly on humanitarian grounds . 
I am referring to the case mentioned previously by my colleague Mr Marset , the British submarine Tireless , which has been anchored in the port of Gibraltar since May , where the intention is to repair it . 
It has been raised by five Members in this House and he has not said anything about it . 
I am concerned : is it that he is deaf ? 
I will be suggesting to my colleagues that we answer your questions in writing . 
Every effort must be made in order to ensure that the new negotiations are a success . 
I do welcome the fact that some movements , which were at one time some of the most implacable , have now gathered around the table . 
We are organised to step up the actual cooperation . 
We are giving all the signals we can to organisations like the UNHCR , and also to other donors , to try and get well organised , as you can hear from what I have said . 
I would like to assure the Members of the House that the refugees are fully aware of , and greatly value and appreciate , the earlier efforts of the European Parliament in drawing attention to their situation . 
I would urge international donors to continue to make sufficient funds available to permit the running of the camps during the negotiation and the verification process . 
We were assured that bilateral negotiations would be speedily concluded and that actual verification in the camps would begin last July . 
It is linked with both neighbours through agreements and economic ties . 
We are hoping that the talks in New York between the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the Prime Ministers of Bhutan and Nepal will lead to a decisive breakthrough . 
The explosion will hit not just Asia , but in the end will also affect Europe and the European Union . 
We will continue to concern ourselves with that situation . 
It has been stated by many human rights organisations that human rights abuses by paramilitaries have the support of the armed forces and that the murder of the poor people in rural areas is as a result of this . 
It is going to irreversibly damage the people and the environment and it will not solve the drugs problem . 
I would like to point out that President Pastrana was the first foreign Head of State who wished to appear before the plenary session of Parliament in this legislature . 
I would like to recall the words of President Pastrana in this Parliament : " I believe that a decent and democratic future is not possible without a culture of respect for fundamental rights . 
We are talking about a kidnapping carried out by criminals who have no political links , either with the members of the former military junta or with any of the groups that signed the peace agreement in July 1999 . 
I would like to know why arms are being delivered to Turkey right in the middle of the pre - accession process , and why arms factories are being built . 
We would welcome any decision by the United Nations Security Council to strengthen the UN force in Sierra Leone . 
We have had many messages from the Czech authorities this week . 
It should have been ratified by the Czech Parliament at the beginning of the year and transposed into national law , but this has been indefinitely delayed without any reasons being given . 
I would like to comment on the Technical Group of Independent Members &apos; amendment , which does not include any sensible or new requirements apart from a hint at compromise . 
It would be interesting , as Gordon Adam has already asked , to know what its view is on the environmental impact assessment . 
I should like to express my sympathy to the families of the victims and the injured in all the countries which faced similar problems . 
They could use the Interreg Community initiative , for example . 
We must be careful not to promise things we can not deliver . 
We should be careful , when entering into discussions such as this , not to automatically assume that the Commission will solve the problem . 
I should like to draw your attention to EC Regulation No 2158/1992 , under which preventive action in relation to forest fires may be financed . 
This process should be finalised very quickly . 
This financing was led by corporate groups bidding for the right to exploit mahogany and native hardwood forestry . 
I can imagine that the removal of prejudice , as you referred to earlier Commissioner , is not a matter of course in such situations . 
These procedures should be applied with due care , intelligence and maturity . 
The peoples involved had nothing in common in terms of language , culture and religion and there are also striking differences in their appearance . 
I would like clarity on that point . 
It may be quite useful for us , as politicians , to be confronted with the question of whether sports and politics should have anything to do with each other or not . 
This system is put to work in the given situation . 
We do have a very important role as a trading partner and donor in Fiji and this creates a serious framework for the present discussion with the people in power in Fiji . 
I have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I shall submit this to the Conference of Presidents , Mr Adam , and you will be notified of the outcome . 
The report has shown , first of all , that when money is invested in education , that money is multiplied . 
People must be prepared for this vertiginous and fascinating roller coaster of change . 
Learning has become broader and longer . 
It is said , and rightly so , that we are becoming a society of information and knowledge . 
The individual must learn for him or herself . 
We could say the same in connection with this , as the political balance sheet for the Year of Lifelong Learning ( 1996 ) is yet to be reckoned . 
We must stress the importance of the fact that lifelong learning also involves an all - round educational element and not just a professional one . 
A person might speak the language of computers in the information society , but perhaps he has nothing else to say . 
The public must be trained , not only to use computers , but also to use them for their own benefit . 
People must know how to use computers for beneficial and essential purposes so they can improve their own way of working and take better control of their lives . 
I must tell you , it is really fun learning a language . 
Networking can be useful in disseminating ideas for best practice , but we must not delude ourselves that a Year of Lifelong Learning will make a real difference . 
That opportunity must be taken . 
It would be far better if we could avoid that sort of failure . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 8 September 2000 . 
We shall consider the best way of passing on this entirely justified protest . 
I shall be very happy to do that . 
I would like to raise as a point of order the fact that the Quaestors have made a recommendation that during constituency weeks next year MEPs should be allowed a daily allowance if they are in Brussels . 
We are giving fuel to the Eurosceptics who think that we are pumping up our own expenses and we look like hypocrites at a time when we are asking the Commission to reform . 
The issue concerned has thrown the whole of Europe into commotion and may well do so for the foreseeable future . 
The time allocated is really far too short and , on behalf of many MEPs , I felt I had to express my dissatisfaction in public . 
I would ask the Bureau to reconsider this . 
I would ask that since we mourn other deaths here , could we not do the same for those whom we never knew , and especially those who were murdered for political , specifically racist , reasons ? 
I would like to raise awareness about this issue in this House , particularly as we had a debate about it in Germany . 
I should like to request that we keep to a standard voting time , i.e. eleven o &apos; clock . 
We must grasp our responsibility and our destiny with both hands . 
We must say that we are the main net importer and the second largest consumer of oil in the world . 
I was talking about aid , however , and I wish to say that we must break up and end anti - competitive practices and these practices are clearly taking place in the fuel sector . 
We must ask ourselves whether it is necessary to get caught up in a crisis before we start to speak about better strategies . 
It will be difficult to get a quick result , however . 
It is claimed that the refinery chain is in the hands of so few that a cartel - like situation has developed in the market . 
We must be able to understand this reaction and , at the same time , we must explain to our citizens the reasons for our decisions . 
A lot has been said about switching to a sustainable energy policy , but precious little has been done about it . 
I would conclude by saying that the price of oil will be brought down neither by increasing the cost of investments nor by reducing the purchasing power of the people of Europe . 
They have pushed it to the limit , and now we are facing this crisis of high oil prices , they must drop these prices and coordinate them . 
We are seeking a medium - term view , which is combined with a review of the Union &apos; s transport policy because it is a fact that energy is a crucial component in transport . 
I would like us to try to communitise this , but , in the mean time , we must coordinate the energy policy of the Member States . 
We are talking specifically of the transport sector and now , in the Council of Transport Ministers , I hope we will reach some agreements . 
Laws must be applied and interpreted according to the same criteria , providing the same level of data protection . 
We have been discussing the fact that we need an instrument of this kind , for years , but so far to no avail , and tomorrow we will have our one and only chance to actually complete Eurodac . 
I would be delighted if we could . 
We are going to abstain on those amendments which we feel have already been approved by Parliament and which are already included in this Parliament &apos; s previous report . 
We would be foolish , as a Parliament , to rely on the Council &apos; s goodwill rather than on rights which we possess if the Commission has the implementing powers . 
This plan is aimed at cracking down on anyone who comes to the aid of an immigrant without the proper papers . 
I should like to begin by reminding honourable Members that the Tampere European Council requested that the Eurodac system be completed as quickly as possible . 
We can conclude from this report that the Commission and the European Parliament have played their part in this task most speedily . 
This directive will rectify this serious omission . 
It does seem to me that there are some people in this House who are a little bit dim in grasping that . 
The employer should consider money spent on safety at work as an investment . 
Each country can frame its own health and safety regulations provided that European minimum standards are observed . 
It can make no sense to legislate on how Europeans are permitted to climb ladders . 
We can trust the people of Europe to decide for themselves how they climb ladders . 
I can guarantee that all seven parliamentary parties in Sweden , especially my own Christian Democratic Party , are concerned about the matter . 
We must endeavour to keep Community legislation as straightforward as possible and avoid any inconsistencies in the overall framework . 
We will improve the protection we intend to provide with this initiative . 
Business is looking for the development of confidence in the whole range of new mechanisms which the Commissioner is seeking to bring forward as part of its overall reform package . 
I would like the Commissioner to indicate whether , in due course , it is his intention to see further exemption categories specified in the legislation . 
We must congratulate Mr Monti and the whole of the Commission on having the courage and bravery to complete a reform - which the Commission is determined to do - a reform that was started years ago . 
I have said in other interventions that , in my opinion , it is not only necessary but also takes us in the right direction . 
They were included in the previous legislation and have disappeared here without sufficient justification . 
Consumers will benefit from these economic advantages , but only if effective competition is maintained on the market . 
This matter has been debated by Parliament twice before . 
We have achieved what we were aiming for in a number of important areas . 
We have gone from EUR 50 million to EUR 93 million . 
It has taken the procedure a long time to come to an end , since we have spent almost three years on the first and second readings and on the debate in conciliation . 
Aid must be directed in such a way that it brings benefit to the worst - off of all . 
Experience has shown it . For that reason the EU should not shy away from it . 
We are dealing with development policy in a piecemeal way and this prevents us from having an overview . 
These discrepancies are marginalised all too easily by the EU in the complementarity and coordination proposed by the rapporteur and the Commission . 
I would like to highlight three points in particular : complementarity , coherence and coordination must be brought together in one uniform strategy because they are interdependent . 
They will indicate how Community assistance fits in with what other donors are doing . 
It has been operational since the start of this month and we are using it and we would like others to do the same whenever a problem seems to exist concerning coherence . 
It has come back to haunt us and now requires action . 
We are continuing our efforts at the Commission to improve the effectiveness of our services . 
It was said in the discussion here that some Member States want to dismantle what we do collectively . 
It may be necessary to act in this way , but certain principles have to be adhered to in this issue . 
It had been clear up until now : industry buys products produced in the EU and is then given export refunds in order to be able to compete on the international market . 
You have done your level best for rural farming in Europe , and that is the spirit in which we will vote for the proposed amendments that we put forward in committee . 
We will lead the next discussion we have on prices and the next discussions we have about whether prices of our products within the EU are pitched too high . 
We should be very much aware of that price , which is passed on to the food industry . 
They will have to be addressed in a transparent way during the major debates on the European Union &apos; s options . 
I have given the example of Ireland &apos; s dairy industry and would ask the Commissioner to examine the implications for this sector in particular . 
I have covered the main aspects . 
The rapporteur has referred to this , but e - commerce is an area which is set to grow . 
We must create good legislation , which is balanced for everyone . 
They are entitled to their own system of justice and we have to continue to support that . 
It will allow us to look at legislation , how it is impacting on SMEs and now it is impacting on consumers . 
This problem has been exaggerated totally out of proportion . 
We could say that , because we are only consultees , we can say what we like . 
We must resolve the issue of which is to be the competent court . 
I would like to thank her for the way she has done it and the way she has so freely shared her knowledge with us . 
We have had Mrs Ahern - I am sorry she is not here - saying it will be a disastrous outcome if the committee &apos; s report is voted through . 
They can offer consumers alternative jurisdiction but only under very specific conditions . 
It could increase bureaucracy from the point of view of the consumer . 
I would give my wholehearted support to the conclusion reached in the Legal Affairs Committee . 
We will see what we can do . 
I have been informed that Minister Paul , representing the Council , is still on his way and hopes to arrive here very shortly . 
We must go further in terms of European cooperation . 
It would be difficult , you understand , for me to respond to the representative of the Council if he did not have the opportunity to speak first . 
I would prefer it if we embarked on today &apos; s proceedings rather than adjourn , in view of today &apos; s punishing schedule and the fact that the House decided yesterday to vote at 11 a.m. 
We have heard the Commissioner &apos; s statement . 
I am convinced of the personal and political commitment of Commissioner Vitorino and the College of Commissioners to this undertaking , something that they have demonstrated on several occasions . 
I was born 48 years ago in Euskadi , where I have lived all my life . 
All ideas can be defended through the spoken word . 
Nothing is set in stone . 
We should like to express our solidarity with those who have been affected and also , in particular , our hope for peace . 
One might wonder why the second paragraph of the text as it stands is proving so difficult to sign . 
I would request the next speakers , if they want to raise a procedural point , to keep it extremely brief , and I would ask the honourable Members to remain as calm as possible . 
It must provide these groups with outside support , so as to encourage them to continue to stand up for their own convictions against the right wing . 
One could say that the European Union today is the practical expression of the exact opposite to the notions of terrorism and racism . 
We must make use of this opportunity and make a clear European contribution to this conference . 
She has put a great deal of work into it . 
I would ask you to raise this matter and find out whether others are agreed on this proposal . 
We have given our utmost attention to this report in committee and feel that our proposed amendments substantially improve this regulation . 
I would ask , nevertheless , that we please stick to what has already been discussed and to the list of votes . 
You could have made that oral amendment but we have already voted on that amendment . 
It would be another matter if the debate were about extremism . 
It would be a flash in the pan , destined to burn itself out . 
Some pensioners are forced to work &apos; underground &apos; - i.e. illegally - because , in certain States , it is not possible to receive both a salary and a pension . 
Everyone is united in condemning non - declared work , or the black economy , as it is commonly called . 
I would like to start by assuring you that we support Mrs Glase &apos; s work . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 15 December 2000 . 
I would ask you , as a mark of respect for the victims and for the immense suffering of their families , to observe a minute &apos; s silence . 
I should like , on behalf of the European Parliament , to express our sympathy to the parents and families of the victims . 
That delay was intended to allow time for the other institutions to consider our amendments and for the Commission to formulate amended proposals . 
I have received no requests for amendments to the agenda for Monday , Tuesday or Wednesday . 
The request was made by the Group of the Party of the European Socialists , but I can inform you that it was approved unanimously by the Conference of Presidents . 
I can see that this is the case . 
Whoever is acquainted with the situation across the entire region , knows that this is a burning issue , and we can thus expect conflicts to flare up once again . 
I would like to draw your attention to the plan for Thursday &apos; s sitting , which has the debate on reports continuing after 5.30 p.m. until 6.30 p.m .. 
We have seen from experience that participation in the Thursday evening vote was always very high and was enough to outweigh the concerns that you have just expressed . 
I have received no requests for amendments to the agenda for the Brussels part - session of 31 January and 1 February . 
I would appeal to the House to express its sympathy with Mr Tsiakourmas and his family . 
He has been accused of a crime of which I do not think he is guilty . 
I would urge you to press the Council to observe the Rules of Procedure . 
I would appeal to the House that in some ways it is more important to get a clear answer than to get one that suits everyone ; one that is absolutely perfect in every respect . 
I would point out that the Commission &apos; s first proposal was published as early as 1985 and Parliament &apos; s first reading was held back in 1987 . 
I would make an urgent appeal to the European Commission to make a maximum effort to improve the quality of legislation and to restrict the administrative burden on citizens and businesses . 
We must understand that there are three stages of legislation - formulation , implementation , including transposition , and enforcement - and we have to see the process as a whole . 
It should be anything but that . 
An attempt was made there to improve the quality of legislation , to try to cut down on superfluous legislation and to limit the costs associated with implementing legislation . 
I am convinced that this approach will allow all those taking part in this overhaul exercise to focus on the key issues of simplification , and that the SLIM teams will be making relevant and practical recommendations . 
I would like to underline this point . 
It is examining areas where non - regulatory alternatives could be introduced . 
I will try to quote this at the appropriate place and time , and those whom the cap fits can wear it . 
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon . 
I must highlight two points in this quality evaluation as specified in the common position . 
We must find ways which give power back to the schools and to the parents and to the students because that is where responsibility should lie . 
This competence must be carried out as closely to the population as possible , and that means that there will probably never be a need for a general European education system . 
What does make sense is to debate the essence of the problem . What type of person do schools mould and for what sort of society ? 
It is trying to set up a database of tools and instruments to be used by schools in self - evaluation and which will then by available to all stakeholders involved . 
A port may be classified , for example , without any regard for the boats . 
No one can question the need to extend this concept to sites which are not just monuments , natural sites or moveable property . 
I would point out - and this is a positive fact - that the text refers to regional minority languages , which are covered by a range of protective measures . 
It would be a good idea for the Commission , sooner or later , to indicate the limit which State aid may exceed , as laid down in Article 87(3)(d ) . 
I should like to use subsidies to preserve the cultivated terraces around the Mediterranean and to preserve the biologically rich and fantastically beautiful meadows in the mountain areas surrounding rivers and lakes in thickly wooded Scandinavia . 
We must avoid a situation where different bodies responsible for fighting fraud and corruption , such as OLAF and the financial irregularities panel , cancel each other out in their efforts . 
We shall be following her lead in not supporting the amendments tabled because we want to keep to that clear - cut approach . 
We should let the Commission prove that it applied the procedure correctly . 
I would like to see a report in which the role of our Palestinian counterpart is explained . 
I would single out the closure of accounts for special mention in this respect . 
We must do more to tackle this than just compile a report once every two years ; we need to cut back . 
We have set up OLAF and ought to concentrate far more on ensuring that OLAF is able to carry out its work properly and in an independent manner , particularly its internal investigations . 
I would remind the Commission not just to issue statements on this , but also produce a legal basis . 
The excuse used was always that the relevant procedures were unclear . 
I would appreciate your support in this . 
You have ascertained that in most areas that were central to the 1997 budgetary discharge procedure the measures taken by the Commission merit approval because we are heading in the right direction . 
I must stress the need for the New Computerised Transit System ( NCTS ) to come into operation soon in all the Member States and the countries associated with the common transit system . 
Improvements have been made and staffing levels have increased . 
I would like to stress here that the people in the delegation in Sarajevo are better organised , highly qualified and highly motivated . 
It is reported that with regard to this policy , EUR 2 million &apos; s worth of equipment was subsidised which was not eligible for subsidy . 
It is included in the resolution , and so I hope that a response will be forthcoming in the very near future . 
We must come up with a rural policy geared towards regional needs and fairness between farmers if we are to preserve Europe &apos;s cultural heritage and the environment . 
I would advise other regions with serious problems of unemployment to study the work of the International Fund in Northern Ireland and the border counties . 
It has done an outstanding job and I welcome the positive response in the report to it . 
I would invite him to visit Northern Ireland and the border countries and to see the situation for himself . 
I might mention that in 1999 and 2000 , new legal provisions on the transit procedure in the customs field entered into force . 
I would like to express my gratitude for these reports . 
A criticism was raised in the 1999 Annual Report to the effect that there were shortcomings with regard to the repatriation of refugees , but this situation has now improved . 
We must try not to give others an excuse to join their ranks ; we must create the potential for the euro to win more supporters who will then accede to the euro zone . 
I have annexed the detailed timetable to the report . 
I have agreed with Mrs Flesch that amendments from the committee today have my full support to go through unchallenged , as there are a number of useful contributions there . 
That criticism should be taken on board so that our friendly feelings for small and medium - sized enterprises do not only find expression in fine celebratory speeches , but also in practice . 
We must consider the amendments , since we need to demonstrate a greater ability to harness venture capital . The amendments also , in my opinion , complement the report well . 
Deadlines should be set by which a decision must be given in the form of a clear &apos; yes &apos; or &apos; no &apos; , so as to avoid any unnecessary risk . 
I would like to address the main points raised by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs &apos; report prepared by Mr Bushill - Matthews . 
This request has been put to the European Commission and the Member States since 1990 . 
I would ask the MEPs to vote in favour of the report and certainly also for the amendments which I have tabled . 
We have achieved a great deal , but there is still much to be done . 
I would like to mention two . 
The debate is suspended until 3 p.m. 
I was concerned in case my fractured foot prevented me from speaking . 
We should recall that it is a very good policy of the European Union to encourage students to study in other EU Member States . 
We must be firm on this issue . 
People are saying that it might be possible to contract mad cow disease by drinking milk . 
What is needed is an improvement in the situation of small producers , differentiating support according to the size of the farm . 
What could be more damning than the reference in the report to " conflicts of interest " in the office of the High Representative himself ? 
This aim will be thwarted by the contradictions inherent in the capitalist system and therefore has little chance of success . 
I should like to emphasise this , because it is precisely this form of argument which has given an unwarranted boost to those Danish opponents of the EU who maintain that the EU is eroding the Danish welfare system . 
What can be done about this ? 
It would be interesting to hear from the Commissioner roughly how many people in her Directorate are responsible for this as compared to those overseeing the introduction of new legislation . 
We will continue to pursue this idea in two years time when the issue should return to us . 
I would remind all the Members of the European Parliament that implementation of European Community law covers both the transposition of directives into national law and their application to individual decisions . 
I would be more than happy to receive more resources and personnel from the European Parliament to work on this . 
I have been very clear from the beginning that I will put more emphasis on implementation . 
We have talked about doing it but seemingly not done so yet . 
I would like to comment on two directives today . 
These hamsters were spirited away by a campaign group for the protection and preservation of this species who believed that , if they abducted the hamsters , they could get them to mate . 
We must be very precise in the results we want , but not in the way in which the results must be achieved . 
I should like to ask the House to accept these proposed amendments , because what we are trying to do here is to give the Member States more responsibility . 
They are stalling for time and they know perfectly well that nothing will happen to them , because it takes so long for the Court to do anything . 
Some members are saying that we should name and shame . 
We should take a lesson from nature and conduct ourselves properly and comply with the laws which we ourselves have passed . 
We could do more on that . 
We could do more with the use of indicators because we have to measure . 
It has been said that we need less but better legislative proposals . 
We can do more on education and information . 
We have started activities like this . We use our experts to go to Member States or to carry out seminars to teach the Member States how to best implement it . 
We have reached a point where it has become vital to take action in order to stop this decline . 
I was given the opportunity to visit young farmers in five Member States which gave me a better and wider understanding of the practical ways in which young farmers could be helped in the industry . 
I would like to ask Commissioner Fischler to recommend to Member States that they introduce such a policy throughout the EU . 
We are seeing the average age of the farming Community increase with falling numbers of young farmers . 
This trend must be reversed . 
I would like to ask the Commission to investigate the possibilities for developing share farming within the common agricultural policy . 
It will require an agricultural policy that is defined in regional rather than sectoral terms and will require priority for the environment , rural development , vocational training and early retirement . 
It must be financially feasible to sustain the change - of - generation system . 
It would be very important if we could get young people to continue in a profession that is important to us all . 
We must put into practice the principles and actions proposed in this own - initiative report so as to make rural life more attractive to young people , thus preventing depopulation of the countryside . 
Efforts must be concentrated on providing support - moral , educational and financial . 
I am backing this proposal because young people must be given the opportunity to come into the industry on a sound financial footing . 
I would like to thank Mr Parish for his excellent work . 
We must be concerned about the human problems that arise out of the squeeze - out of excessive labour , but at the same time , we should remember that the cost of food has been reduced . 
We could encourage young farmers , who face so much red tape and bureaucracy now . 
It would be a real aberration if in the new European Union area of freedom , security and justice the law served precisely to support those who committed such a despicable crime . 
People must be able to feel safe wherever they are in the EU . 
A lot can be improved now that we have a civil protection division , specifically with overall responsibility of this kind . 
It would be very radical to try to ban a certain plant . 
We can argue about progress being swift or slow , but we have to see compliance in full . 
These initiatives are intended to combat growing congestion , negative environmental effects , our over - dependence on oil and the high number of road accidents . 
I would refer you also to the fact - I have said this in other fora - that Director - General Lamoureux has made statements on nuclear energy which vastly exceed the brief of the Commission . 
You will understand that I have been conducting Question Time now for a year and a half , and out of duty I have had to read this part of the Rules . 
We will make the kind of response to this problem that we have presented for the CLONG so far . 
I am faced with a situation where if I do not do this I would be acting in a manner which would in all probability be strongly criticised by the Court of Auditors and by this House . 
I should like to thank Commissioner Nielson for his answer and for the efforts being made on behalf of all refugees specifically in the Molucca Islands where the largest group is de facto Christian . 
I can answer the last question by saying that the organisations concerned are those I referred to as our partners in implementing humanitarian aid . 
Training was given and FAO estimates that more than 50 000 people have benefited directly from the project . 
I have seen this programme and it is in fact so well - organised and so neat that the alternative that we can offer the refugees when they return looks much less organised . 
We will work closely with the Swedish Presidency to maintain conflict prevention and peacekeeping at the top of our agenda . 
We are trying to improve them so that the debates can be conducted more correctly . 
We have done a great deal of constructive work and numerous details have been clarified . 
We have stated from the start that we are prepared both to take account of Moroccan interests and to support the development of the Moroccan fisheries sector . 
I would like to underline to you , as I have done in my report , a number of points that I feel strongly about . 
I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Mr Varela Suanzes - Carpegna on his report . 
Some Members would have preferred not to examine the subject in too much depth . 
This policy was drawn up in order to manage a common resource and to respect the commitments laid down in the first European Treaties . 
We are looking forward , at last , to taking a closer look at the study on the cost - benefit analysis of the fisheries agreement and drawing the necessary conclusions . 
I am looking forward to a stimulating and controversial debate in the interest of the future of European fisheries . 
The result will be that the next Austrians - like yourself - or Swedes who negotiate in Rabat will think that what the Moroccans want is exactly the opposite of what they are thinking or saying . 
We are requesting clear legal and scientific opinions on access restrictions . 
This question is going to return and be debated many more times in this House . 
I should like there to be an agreement , and I hope the Commission will be able to assert its right to reciprocity . 
It means being conservative when one decides the level at which one wants to maintain a fish stock . 
We should confine ourselves , within the framework of these two reports , to addressing the problems and discussing various possible solutions . 
Both rapporteurs have done a great deal of work and have highlighted the basic problems of the common fisheries policy and I am grateful to them for that . 
I should like to single out just three of these basic problems . 
We shall have an opportunity to discuss Community solutions to this burning issue . 
Negotiations were held practically every day in Rabat between 2 January and 9 January . 
The opposition must resume its constructive role . 
We will go from one country to another across the world and bring what we are doing up to normal standards concerning the basis of cooperation and priorities . 
We must encourage them to do so . 
Others have touched upon these , so I shall not comment further upon them . 
I have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Article 42(5 ) . 
You must give a reply here . 
I would remind you that we agreed on the organisation of this debate at the Conference of Presidents last week . 
The examinations must be thorough , they must be carried out by independent experts and there must be transparency about methods and possible factors of uncertainty . 
I should like to thank Mr Solana for promising that all information will be published . 
We shall hold him to this , and he will also be held to account if the promise is not kept . 
It is known , moreover , that the effects of radioactive contamination do not become apparent until after a relatively long period of time . 
I should like to end with one last comment . Please excuse me for going on a little too long . 
I am thinking of the horrific effects of the Gulf War on the Iraqi people , particularly the children . 
Who will provide them with a convincing answer tomorrow ? 
It would be inappropriate to engage in such a debate . 
You should be aware that the development of new arms will take many years . 
We must ensure that we are working on the basis of scientific fact and that is why it is not appropriate to call for a moratorium at the moment , when there is no scientific link between the two . 
It would be rather difficult to provide you with information we do not have . 
I have taken note of everything , but I do not want to go through each point individually since not many actual questions have been asked . 
I would like to say something to those who accuse me of having asked this Parliament for its complicity . 
I am accepting mine and you must accept yours . 
We must be able to share and to accept our collective responsibility . 
We would like to come back to report to you and of course we are always willing to answer any questions that you might have . 
I should like to inform the House that I have received seven motions for resolutions under Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure as well as one joint motion for a resolution sponsored by six groups . 
We shall vote the money and we shall look forward to the reports from the Commission on how it has spent the money . 
I have been asked by a number of colleagues who have read the report why , if it is such a good idea , there are so many amendments in it . 
It was blocked , it appears , by the French Presidency , with no explanation of what was happening . 
This trend is continued by the current proposal for the rapid reaction facility . 
Those competences can be deployed in the stabilisation phase following a violent conflict , to prevent the situation from hitting crisis point again . 
Comitology can be avoided by remaining within the Community framework . 
We would ask the Commission , especially in the beginning , to carry out many and frequent assessments , and to report on these to our Parliament . 
This mechanism can provide help where the implementation of those programmes is at risk due to crisis situations . 
I am baffled for instance by the idea that the fight against gender discrimination would fall into the crisis management category , triggering the use of the rapid reaction facility . 
It is envisaged that these tasks will be carried out in third countries where the non - military rapid reaction mechanism will also operate . 
We should abandon these grandiose plans and instead support and develop the existing agencies which have a better track record that the EU will ever have . 
We must be aware that this area still has the potential to be a major trouble spot , but there is nevertheless a real political opportunity now to achieve a lasting peace settlement . 
We shall continue to highlight the importance of these issues . 
This approach has been outlined to the North Korean authorities at the recent Senior Officials Troika meeting in Pyongyang at the end of November . 
I should point out that we have moved from regular food aid to structural food assistance and , in particular , the provision of inputs and technical assistance to enhance agricultural production . 
We should be prepared also to respond to this type of appeal when the time is right . 
I propose adjourning the sitting . 
We would support it here , however , if Amendments Nos 5 and 6 were adopted . 
I was born a Conservative and I trust that I will die a Conservative . 
This potential must be exploited to the full , especially as the Union has not been capable of reacting quickly enough and the instruments for funding operations of this type were not flexible enough . 
We have done so because this report highlights the many serious problems faced by frontier workers . 
We must discuss first principles , so that these subsidisation payouts , the instruments of a command economy , can be consigned to the history books . 
We must talk about that with young farmers , about the fact that they will have to be able to survive in the market without subsidisation . 
It has consulted them all , performing a sort of consultation regionalisation . That is all well and good , but has it also consulted the fish , Mr President ? 
I would have preferred a stronger resolution but I know how difficult it is to achieve that . 
These weapons should be covered by the provisions of the Geneva Convention concerning chemical and nuclear weapons . 
We must do all we can to encourage this change . 
We must congratulate ourselves in Europe on some progress but not enough has been achieved . 
It would be desirable if the Union had a common voice in this important area . 
I would like to ask that special attention be given to two forms of human rights violations that have taken on alarming proportions in Europe over the last few years . 
I could go on and on . 
We must be clear which sanctions are to be imposed . 
We can organise meetings with human rights activists and human rights organisations in the area and we can arrange for the final report to deal with human rights issues . 
I should like , in conclusion , to say that those areas dealt with in the resolution are important , but that they are not , of course , the only areas demanding our attention . 
I can promise Mr Johan Van Hecke that the European Union will take careful account of what has been said in this debate where Africa in particular is concerned . 
I have received seven motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37(2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
The treaties must be simplified . 
I can assure you that the European Parliament can make a presidency easier and that you will therefore lose your virginity in a very gentle and amicable way . 
I have been following the Swedish debate and learned that you suddenly discovered that you are really a vegetarian , or at least a part - time vegetarian . 
We should recall that the accession negotiations are broken up into nearly 40 different chapters of talks , covering every ambit of social and economic activity that is carried out by the European Union . 
It will have to adopt a common position . in recent weeks , the Security Council imposed an embargo on just the Talibans . 
We are looking forward to the Gothenburg Summit and hope that a great many citizens will be there under the alternative arrangements . 
The time has come to get rid of the EU &apos; s final protectionist barriers . 
I would like to receive some indication to this effect . 
It has been proposed that the penalties for trafficking in human beings be made more severe . 
These proposals must be stopped . 
We would like our regions to be able to engage in direct dialogue , so as to remove the disparity in employment levels that can exist between different regions and one Member State . 
You can imagine that I was rather surprised to see just how male - dominated your own retinue is . 
You will have to deal with it . 
I did have more questions but I am out of time . 
You will get used to it and you will find it does not sadden you too much . 
I have noted that the Prime Minister has expressed his hesitancy about eating meat in view of the ways in which animals and meat products are treated . 
It would be the wrong signal because we would first like to see the difficult negotiations with which we are faced result in a breakthrough . 
We will see whether the Swedish Presidency really is taking this issue of overcoming the democratic deficit on board and is proceeding pragmatically , by small steps . 
Reference has been made here today to the Tobin tax , but I think that this will be impossible to implement . 
I am persuaded that the European Commission ought to undertake to do more here than it has to date . 
We must do our outmost to return to a sensible situation here . 
I can assure you , Mr Sjöstedt , that we will do all we can to move the situation forward , but Rome was not built in a day . 
I would appreciate an answer , one I hope will be yes . 
I must apply the Rules of Procedure . 
I can assure Mr Corbett that we probably have exactly the same opinion regarding what is necessary for the Council to be able to accept Burmese participation in this ministerial meeting . 
Operators should have the responsibility for training , but this should be done on a harmonised basis , with a distinct , uniform , European - wide certification system which would be accepted by all Member States . 
These issues must be settled . 
I would like to add that any proposal presented by the Commission in the future will have to guarantee the high level of safety that we all wish to see . 
We must take care to ensure that the two texts are in agreement and compatible with one another . 
I will mention three important ways of reducing the number of road fatalities . 
We have had talk on this issue , year in , year out . 
We must tackle that particular problem . 
An objective must be realistic and achievable , that is what motivates and stimulates . 
We must seek to make our roads safer . 
We must identify and seek where possible to remedy them . 
We must raise people &apos;s awareness of the dangers and risks involved in road use , as the precondition for their acceptance of measures . 
We must make vigorous joint efforts to this end . 
I would like to say to you that if some Member States do not currently control the alcohol content in blood , I doubt that we will have better results just because we have reduced it to 0.5 . 
I must tell you , ladies and gentlemen , that I hope , given the degree of adjustment and development , that we are now on the finishing touches . 
We must extend the quality choice range in the variety of transport available . 
I would agree with those of you who have doubts , that passing on all costs incurred must not leave transport operators with such narrow margins as will put their livelihoods at risk . 
You will appreciate that I am unable to vote in favour of the present resolution as it stands . 
I would like to highlight two of these factors , the ones which lead me to support the rest of his proposals . 
I will fight out the question of who is holding sham debates in this House with Mr Jarzembowski elsewhere ; at present I only have two minutes &apos; speaking time . 
I would be grateful if this could therefore be corrected . 
I would ask you to amend the attendance register accordingly . 
They are doing it themselves and have been doing so for a long time . 
They should look at this and draw up their voting lists carefully with this in mind . 
It would be a mistake to reject quotas , as the parties are being urged to do . 
We must distinguish between those things from which we can all benefit in the Community , for example statistics that can be compared , and those areas in which we can clearly only offer each other inspiration . 
That attitude will be of no less immediate importance in connection with enlargement . 
The problems have been recognised for a long time , but progress on solving them has been slow . 
She had reached her goal under her own steam , but she had made so many sacrifices along the way that she had become a woman whom I do not wish other women to take as a role model . 
I have quoted one example . 
We must change this situation . 
We are engaged in politics and politics must have a sound basis . 
Women must be given the opportunity to be elected in order to prove what they are capable of . 
I would say , from a philosophical point of view , that a set of numbers or rules can never change a social fact of life . 
This document has meant that forestry matters have been made the subject of very necessary debate in the EU , which , unfortunately , happens all too rarely . 
I would recommend , Commissioner , that you look seriously at this question and review this whole division of labour . 
It will support many aims of the energy policy which the EU is trying to drive through , and which it has just mentioned in the Green Paper on energy . 
We have lost 210 staff in all . 
We have had to combine departments and offices . 
We are asking that they should not be penalised financially . 
I would like to commend Ms Hedkvist - Petersen for her very thorough report on a subject that is of great concern to all of us . 
I would call on the Commission to increase significantly the road safety budget and indeed to encourage Member States to follow suit . 
We must make improving road safety a political priority and provide the financial means to match . 
We will support the report in the final vote , but we take the view that the efforts towards harmonisation are excessive . 
This signal could be misinterpreted or even turned against us to score political points . 
We have demonstrated this in countries where Christian Democrats and Conservatives are in power . 
He was given partial amnesty after he defected with about 10,000 supporters in 1996 . 
The region is stagnating , ossified in political , economic and energy transition processes which continue to exist only in theory . 
These developments are leading to tensions with neighbouring states and to huge obstacles for the Georgians themselves , some of whom work in the Russian Federation and are now experiencing difficulties . 
We have made requests and have largely reached cross - party agreement in Parliament that something should be done . 
We should keep this perspective in mind . 
It must be accepted that Turkey consists of different national and cultural groups which must all have the same rights . 
I would be pleased if we were able to give Turkey credit today for having solved a difficult situation in a peaceful way . 
This information is obtained mainly from the newspapers . Indeed the relative official silence , except perhaps in the case of foreigners , can only be regretted . 
The violence has got to stop . 
They are thinking about it , but it has not yet happened . 
We can take action , and it is important that we do so without further delay . 
Those objectives have been achieved . 
We are debating the former Yugoslavia . 
We have worked hard for it and it is high time that it be able to take up its duties . 
Money must be spent on time and the officials - not only those in El Salvador , but also those in Brussels - will have to assume their responsibilities . 
This region was beginning to recover and it is going to be essential that we make an immense effort to achieve levels of economic , social and democratic security . 
Nothing has moved slowly in the Hurricane Mitch follow - up , except , as I mentioned here , finding seven people to send to Managua . 
We will come back on how to do these things . 
We can air our views on this issue , and we should go ahead with the debate . 
The vote will take place immediately after the debate . 
You have been allotted five minutes and I shall allow you to speak for five minutes . 
We are dealing with a deficient strategic plan because we talk about the free movement of services , capital and goods , and from cattle to uranium they can move around freely in Europe . 
I am talking about the engineer who is sent from a third - country to the EU by a firm which has offices in various different locations . 
He is subjected to the same bureaucratic obstacle , which incidentally ought not to exist at all in a free market and in a free economy . 
Visas are refused by consular offices that operate with a total lack of transparency and rarely have to explain their reasons . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday , 18 January 2001 . 
I should like to offer the European Parliament &apos; s sincere condolences to the family of the victim and to send our wishes for the prompt recovery of those injured in this attack . 
The change would be to remove the name of Mr William Newton Dunn and replace it with Mr Javed Arain , the fourth - ranked Conservative , who is here with us today in the public gallery . 
I am convinced of two points in this respect , and these convictions are shared by the Commission as a whole . 
I should like to hear your views on this . 
I should point out to the House that if the twelve candidate countries were to actually join the European Union right now , then the mean GDP for the Community would drop by 18 points . 
What is going to happen , according to your criteria , to Castilla - La Mancha , Estremadura , Andalusia , Galicia , regions of Portugal and Greece , and &apos; Länder &apos; which have just entered Objective 1 ? 
The rate is going to drop to a greater or lesser extent , Mr Izquierdo Collado , according to whether the twelve candidate countries join at the same time or not . 
We are going to have to find a solution to this . 
We are going to have to find a substantial solution for these regions and continue to support them , and I have outlined a few possible approaches . 
We must continue to promote solidarity between States . 
You mention changing the criteria , if necessary . 
We have attempted to make our hopes practical and realisable in the short and medium terms . 
We should advocate converting the planned free - trade area into a genuine &apos; common market &apos; encompassing goods of all kinds . 
I would urge the Commission to go further by financing immigrants &apos; micro - projects . 
It is gratifying to note that criticisms made in both reports relate to the Swedish Presidency &apos; s main priorities . 
A lot has been achieved , but it has not been possible to implement many of the plans . 
We must prove wrong the theory that enlargement means a decline in interest in the Mediterranean . 
I would like to focus on human rights and the rule of law . 
It would be cause for great hope if the moratorium were to take effect immediately . 
We must safeguard the freedom of movement of persons and equality in social , economic , cultural and political rights . 
We have insisted on the importance of strengthening interparliamentary dialogue , which must be consolidated as one of the key elements in boosting the Barcelona Process . 
We have proposed the creation of a monitoring centre for migration flows , responsible amongst other things for creating mechanisms to combat , in a coordinated fashion , the mafias which profit from illegal immigration . 
We must realise that the starting point for today &apos;s debate , based on the two reports , based on the decisions taken in Barcelona , is to see the other side of the Mediterranean as part of Europe . 
Any violations should be penalised by a drop in financial support . 
We would hope so and we shall all keep an eye on this . 
I would like to speak mainly on the funding for the Euro - Med programme , for MEDA , and say I am disappointed at the very low take - up . 
I have listened carefully to the points of view presented and noted that the criticisms made on a number of points are justified . 
I should like now to give you my assessment of where we stand and where we should go from here . 
We must introduce accumulation of origin for all partners establishing free trade between themselves and adopting the harmonised protocol on rules of origin . 
We must harmonise measures relating to the single market . 
I have noted the calls to increase the numbers of Commission staff available to work on this sector . 
We must deal with issues like South - South trade and accumulation , we must deal with regional cooperation , we have to speed up delivery under MEDA . This is not a virtual policy . 
I would draw the honourable Members &apos; and Parliament &apos; s attention to the fact that this statement particularly emphasises the European Union &apos; s role in the continued work for peace . 
We shall continue to monitor these issues . 
I must tell you that I spent this very morning in Stockholm holding a meeting with the Swedish prime minister and President - in - Office of the Council and the Secretary - General of the United Nations . 
We were talking practically until lunchtime when I took the plane to come here and be with you this afternoon . 
The situation has deteriorated further , and staff and patients are prevented from even reaching the hospital . 
They will need to adjust their policies . 
We must support both sides in their journey towards a solution to the conflict , based on the peaceful resolution of differences , on tolerance , on respect for human rights and the consolidation of peace . 
We must make sure this discussion does not become black and white . 
It would be unacceptable , with regard to respecting human rights , for the European Union to finance police training if in practice nothing were to change . 
We should have the nerve to draw the necessary conclusions , to refer to the rules in the Association Agreement and dare to take measures . 
The mother had left the village of Antis at 5 p.m. and arrived at Ramallah hospital at 8.30 p.m. The journey should have taken 40 minutes . 
We must uphold rules and principles , especially if the Bush government is going to prove incapable of guaranteeing the affirmation of these rules and principles or unwilling to do so . 
We should be asking Chairman Arafat to ensure that the aid that goes to the Palestinians goes to those who really need it . 
I must tell you that I have been visiting it since 1991 , more or less continuously . 
I would like to say that it is not advisable at the moment to appeal for frenzied optimism . 
We have said so , we will continue to say so and I can assure you that , for my part , I will always condemn the current policy . 
I would be extremely sorry if that were the case . 
They must do so first of all because of its blatantly military nature , but also because it is not the result of any consultation process . 
These funds will be dedicated to modernising administration , strengthening democracy and the rule of law , respect for human rights , protecting the environment and developing alternative crops . 
The objective will be to put more emphasis on an overall strategy in order to counter the phenomenon of the transfer of illicit crops from one country to another . 
It will increase the massacres ; it will increase the disappearances ; it will increase the violations committed against ordinary innocent people . 
We are expecting to stay at the level we have been at in recent years as far as NGO cofinancing is concerned . 
I have received the following motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 40(5 ) of the Rules of Procedure : 
I would like clear information on this matter . 
They will be entitled to do so . 
I should like to stress that Parliament works quickly when it needs to , and especially when there is close cooperation as between myself and Mr Jarzembowski . 
We could have been bolder . 
You might say we can go home content tomorrow after the votes . 
Companies must be enabled to find a solution to sending their products from the company to the railway and once the destination is reached , from the railway to the company . 
I would point out that we have a duty , in view of some forms of liberalisation elsewhere , jointly to keep monitoring safety and the social aspects which are related to liberalisation . 
I would like to make one critical comment , and that is that the environmental advantages of rail compared to road transport are dwindling fast . 
We must reverse that trend . 
Glaciers are being melted at a faster rate than steel rails are hardening in the mould . 
Experience will show whether the nascent liberalisation of the European railways will mean better services for rail users . 
I would like to offer my heartfelt thanks to all concerned for the difficult , but ultimately productive , work undertaken within the Conciliation Committee . 
We are setting up a European rail network which does not yet exist , to replace 15 national juxtaposed networks . 
Some people have complained that we spent too much time on this , others that we rushed things . 
I would like to say that we might well all have liked to move forward faster . 
We have amended it slightly in several places and we have also inserted the stipulation that the regulation is to expire at the end of December 2005 . 
I would be grateful if the Commission could use this positive definition in future . 
I would like to focus once more on two particular points . 
We must try to find a reasonable basis , because we will only make progress in this matter if we work together . 
Things would have been even worse without the energy star programme . 
It has been officially adopted in Australia and Japan for example . 
The information must be easily intelligible to all . 
We shall ensure that Parliament is kept informed of the review of the technical specifications , a point raised by Mrs McNally and with which we totally agree . 
I can assure you that no further resources will be made available , so in the end it will not serve any useful purpose . 
We must produce consolidated texts more quickly in future . 
We can be slightly proud of that . 
We have managed for the first time to get something that is normally only talked about enshrined in European law . I mean the necessity for lifelong learning . 
I should like to mention another point that has always concerned me in connection with the recognition of professional qualifications . 
We must put it right quickly . 
Things will go a lot better then , you will see . 
I would commend this report to the House and ask it to support it . 
I have referred to it in this motion for a resolution as well in order to provide a mosaic , a complete raft of actions intended precisely to make this judicial cooperation more effective . 
He has brought some logic and sense to it but while giving praise , I have some criticisms and some points that I can not agree with . 
People should have the right to defend themselves when they are accused or allegations made against them . 
The issue is being decided at present by the Court of Human Rights and will not go away . 
We were consulted too late , on 7 December to be precise , but even so , we appointed Mr Nicholson as rapporteur and he presented his draft report immediately , the following day , which was 8 December . 
I would like now to turn to the proposals which the Commission will put to the Standing Veterinary Committee . 
It must be removed , it must be removed in the abattoir and it must be treated as risk material . 
I have learned in my eleven years in the European Parliament that progress here moves at a snail &apos;s pace . 
Fats must be sterilised by pressure cooking . 
I have heard it all before in recent years . 
Sites are selected by order of the public authorities without any consultation of the local populations , environmental - impact studies or risk assessments . 
It would be better here if we said that the only fat in milk replacer must come from the milk itself . 
People will say to me : Well , yes , you were first . 
We must take into account the Scientific Steering Committee &apos; s review , but surely if the spinal cord is removed adequately that should be enough . 
I would urge , and I know Commissioner Byrne agrees with this , to have one policy throughout Europe . 
I can assure you of that . 
We might consider a temporary levy on meat , as a result of which we would at least be able effectively to cover the cost of far - reaching measures this year . 
I have heard that the abattoirs are simply refusing to slaughter animals . 
They are being clubbed without being tested . 
We must intervene here , we must sort this out throughout Europe . 
We shall be dealing with hygiene regulations shortly . 
We must remember that , in a globalised food market , there is a requirement for political limits upon how food is produced so that other social objectives are not forgotten . 
We must consider whether it is reasonable to give animals feed supplements which cause abnormal growth . 
This vigilance must be practised across the board , from veterinary treatment to husbandry practices . 
This opinion was reviewed and confirmed in May 2000 . 
I would ask Parliament to reconsider its view on this issue , because I believe that it is of considerable importance that the question of comitology be seriously addressed in this issue . 
I have been through this before . 
I have had this debate with Parliament and I know what is going to happen later in the day . 
I have said here before when debating this issue that I will not lightly disregard the view of Parliament on any issue where comitology arises . 
I would like stress that monitoring systems already exist both in the Member States and at Community level . 
We should continue to foster linguistic and cultural diversities through the use of electronic publishing and we should facilitate the easy transformation of traditional publishing industries into the e - publishing arena . 
A revolution has taken place which makes books even more interesting , even richer , even more indispensable to each and every one of us . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur for all the work and the research she has carried out . 
We must be in at the start of their development to ensure that digital technology is able to offer new access routes to published material as well as a rich diversity of such material . 
I have read the Conciliation Committee &apos;s report and I must express my hope that Mr Jarzembowski becomes a frequent member of conciliation committees because he has achieved all that it was possible to achieve . 
I would like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction at the decision , also adopted in Turin , to reopen the Mount Blanc road tunnel after the summer . 
We should resolve to open borders . 
I would have thought that he would have had a minute to share with us . 
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday , 1 February 2001 . 
I have received no requests for amendments to the agenda for Monday , Tuesday or Wednesday ; however , Mr McMillan - Scott has asked to be allowed to speak . 
We will give you the information . 
I could send you photos which have appeared in the Spanish press so that you could see how serious this situation , this tragedy , really is . 
We were according equal rights to Euro - parliamentarians by arresting them along with all the others . 
We shall look into this matter very carefully . 
You may be unaware that procedural motions are now tabled after the agenda has been adopted . 
This problem is recognised at an international level . 
It must be obliged to interrupt the procedure in order to guarantee the safety of the ship and crew . 
I should be grateful if the Commissioner could say something about the initiatives the Commission intends to go on taking on this important matter . 
We must invest in it . 
I would like to thank the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism for having agreed to the amendments that I tabled . 
We must make it clear to the coast dwellers affected that the European Union may have been tardy in addressing these problems , but that the right approach has been adopted , after years of pressure on our part . 
I must commend the rapporteur , Mr Bakopoulos , on this report . 
He has done such a good job that we can adopt it without further ado and we have not even needed the excitement of the conciliation procedure , which I was so looking forward to . 
It has taken account of Parliament &apos; s important amendments and thus the proposal should be swiftly advanced . 
He was working under great time pressure . 
Stocks have suffered a further drastic fall in all areas . 
We must make sure that we get the reforms right . 
It is being fished with ever larger vessels and with ever more refined technology to clear out the sea . 
It has failed to sustain fish stocks and it has failed to secure a future for our fishermen . 
These decisions will be regarded by many fishermen in the UK and Ireland as the last straw . 
He has put the problem to the public at home the way he has put it here . 
We have proven both the Bible and this nineteenth - century encyclopaedia wrong . 
You will be voting on the report tomorrow , and that just leaves enough time for us to make a decision in Council so that the regulation can come into force on 15 February . 
I shall give the floor immediately to Mr Watson , who is Chairman of that committee , to give us its opinion . 
We would have preferred to have been informed of this earlier by the Council . They have brought it to us at the very last moment . 
It must be pointed out that last year 50 % of the programme was successfully concluded . 
I am reminded of a story which is told in the United States about the famous Mayor Richard Daley , who was mayor of several Chicago administrations . 
I would hope that next September we will have something where each initiative , in methodological terms , is justified . 
I would like to see them . 
We will have to take it seriously finally and we should no longer have to witness any Intergovernmental Conference in which just the national interests are safeguarded , with all this happening behind closed doors . 
This term is used to describe EU strategy in the Balkans , its relations with Russia and the Euro - Mediterranean Partnership , all of which is covered in just seven lines of text . 
What has become of Europe &apos; s ambition for the South of Europe ? 
I would caution all interested parties against discussing broader developments within the Union before the ratification process has been comprehensively concluded within the European Union . 
Parliament does have its weaknesses , it is true . But the weaknesses of this Parliament and of parliamentarianism at European level need to be overcome by strengthening this Parliament , not weakening it still further . 
We should be focusing policy - making on areas where EU - wide action is indispensable . 
We should be ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is fully respected . 
The proposal should be the outcome of serious debate in the College of Commissioners , not passed on the nod as A points . 
The consequences will be disastrous if we can not give a firm , frank , timely response . 
I would advise each and everyone of us to get away from this strange &apos; post - Nice &apos; concept . 
What is happening now is not underpinned by any doctrine . 
I would call upon the next countries to hold the presidency to maintain very close contact with the candidate countries and to help by removing obstacles from the path in time . 
The topics are intended to allay the people &apos; s fear of an intangible shift of power towards Brussels at the expense of national jurisdiction , but all they will do is increase the sense of alienation . 
I should like to recall some words by Milan Kundera in his book The Book of Laughter and Forgetting where he says : " People are always shouting that they want to create a better future . 
We would welcome a clearer delineation of competences , as the Berlin Declaration by the European Democrat Union last month favoured , provided that it is not an excuse to strengthen the centre . 
Targets were set and extra staff were made available . 
It would be far preferable to adopt the convention model , as used for drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
I would like to see , for example , a recognition of the interdependence between these areas of policy . 
I would have liked a recognition of these inter - relationships , but I do not see it . 
Schengen has been hijacked by the Member States for the moment . 
I would like to ask you : whose fault will this be ? 
I am bringing this problem up , therefore , because I feel that it is now inescapable . 
This body will have to make proposals which do not necessarily require unanimity because there will come a time when we will have to make such far - reaching proposals that it will be difficult to achieve unanimity . 
I would like to make one more observation . 
I can assure you that this is a firm commitment of the Commission and it is not incompatible with the fact that , sometimes , we also have to make more specific recommendations . 
I would like , once again , to emphasise that this is an extraordinarily important but extremely difficult matter . 
We must resolve the practical problems to make this possible . 
I would like to finish with a word on the invitation made to me by one of you , Mr Goebbels . 
We would like you to undertake a reassessment of the existing directives on social matters with regard both to their record of implementation and to the new challenges presented by their restructuring . 
This work will provide a basis for further development of the observatory from 2002 onwards , if additional resources become available . 
It has announced a communication to support initiatives related to corporate social responsibility and management of change . 
We have come up with an oral question and a resolution in a spirit of cooperation . 
I would ask the Liberals , in the spirit of cooperation , to withdraw their highly destructive resolution . 
We must make sure they are effective . 
We shall have to go much further to respond to the democratic demands of the working citizens of Europe . 
We might have been able to welcome seeing the United Kingdom apply rules granting young people in work greater protection . 
We have voted against this report . 
I am speaking in favour of this because I believe that rail has a key role to play in solving the mobility problems facing the European Union . 
We shall vote in favour of this report since it is important to promote the interoperability of the trans - European rail system . 
We must express our grave reservations on this count , since we remain steadfastly opposed to liberalisation . 
I have read the report seeking to prevent ships sinking but , in my opinion , Mr Fatuzzo the MEP , ships sink because they are too old . 
I shall vote in favour of all the proposals to that end . 
We must commit ourselves to preventing it from increasing social differences . 
They have chosen the only sensible route in this economy dominated by the law of the jungle . 
I could produce a long list , as many Members have done , of relevant cases which we have discussed in recent years . 
I should point out here that legislation alone is not enough and that serious efforts have been made to extend controls . 
We are lagging behind the United States , and , in this respect , I am in agreement with the rapporteur in the sense that we should bring this directive into play as soon as possible . 
We have tabled two amendments which we consider to be very important . 
It would be unacceptable to create large libraries of intellectual property so that , at any given moment , the person who has been using that property can access it at will . 
It would be a good thing if the common position , together with Mr Boselli &apos; s compromise amendments were to be adopted tomorrow . 
You must admit that it is surprising . 
We have sustained the objective of this directive because , above all , we want to encourage new creative artists to exploit this new technology . 
We have got that balance right . 
We have strengthened the review provisions . 
It is trying to resolve these issues as quickly as possible but in a necessarily imperfect way . 
We must be in no doubt about what it is we are risking . 
I would like to echo Mr Rothley &apos; s sentiments . 
They have shown a keen sense of appreciation of the issues at stake in this directive , reducing the number of amendments to 15 . 
We have achieved the phasing out of all harmful , antibiotic - resistant marker genes . 
We have brokered a good compromise . 
The rapporteur has done a fantastic job . 
We have calculated that this premium alone cost EUR 200 000 million . 
It was agreed , with Parliament &apos;s consent , that this would be done in two stages . 
I can take the Commissioner to many farms in the UK where there are over 90 cattle being raised on an extensive - type regime and to smaller farms where cattle are intensively produced . 
This plan must be notified to the Commission and will be evaluated by the Commission &apos;s scientific committees . 
This system has worked perfectly so far . 
I will communicate your speech to the President , and I can tell you that the President has received a letter from you and another one from Mr Berenguer . 
I would ask him to be as concise as possible . 
Who will assume responsibility for medical examination programmes for the populations of the areas affected by depleted uranium bombs ? 
He will understand , however , that without notice of that question I am hardly in a position to give him the detail that he would want on the specific environmental questions that he raises . 
I would like to know what the Commission intends to do about this . 
That feeling is being strongly communicated in the relevant quarters . 
The aim should be to ensure that such products are inherently safe and do not require constant parental supervision . 
This role is reinforced in the new version which is about to be adopted by the Council and the European Parliament . 
I would ask Members to take account of the fact that they are allowed to ask supplementary questions . 
I would thank the Commissioner for his answer and should like to ask a question : where does Commissioner Kinnock believe that criticism ought to be directed ? 
We can do nothing more in the circumstances than continue to strive to meet the best standards which we heartily recommend to others throughout the European Union . 
The information was provided in response to a questionnaire sent to Member States on 5 January 2001 . 
This questionnaire has enabled the Commission to obtain a reasonably complete picture of the way in which the measures are being implemented , and this seems broadly satisfactory . 
I would like to ask a supplementary question , as a result of the perplexity expressed by my constituents at the horrendous errors and contradictions of the Spanish authorities . 
This proposal was accepted by the Standing Veterinary Committee and , when it is formally adopted , Member States will be required to ensure removal of the vertebral column . 
The derogations will be reviewed if necessary in the light of the results of these tests and further scientific advice . 
The consumer must be able to have absolute certainty as to whether a particular product does or does not contain GMOs . 
We must pursue the moratorium since the revised 90/220 Directive does not meet all the requirements that we stipulated at the beginning . 
I will finish by saying that this afternoon there was a speech from Mr Fischler in which he spoke about the economic catastrophe that BSE represents for Europe . 
We must make a breakthrough here , but this will only be possible if there are sufficient safeguards for consumers and if we can offer them legal certainty . 
Consumers must have a choice and the Commission must provide guarantees to this effect . 
I have noted that the actual choice can not be made on the basis of this document . 
We must denounce the lobbying by unscrupulous laboratories and the multinational companies who represent them . 
It will allow control measures for withdrawal from the market in case of unforeseen events after placing on the market and appropriate labelling . 
It has caused the Commission and the Council to halt the approval of GMOs and has caused this Parliament to work for nearly three years on replacing it . 
We must do what we have to do for the people of Europe and that is to support this piece of legislation tomorrow . 
This text has stepped up measures to ensure its quality and credibility , as well as public access to information . 
It has been quite rightly said that for this system to be implemented effectively it will take commitment on the part of staff to common values . 
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs García - Orcoyen Tormo , as well as all the members of the parliamentary delegation and the Conciliation Committee . 
We have heard one speech for the motion and one against . 
These minerals should be accepted as a matter of principle . 
Labelling should tell consumers how to use vitamin and mineral products correctly . 
Products are required to meet the highest purity and quality standards . 
This directive will provide European consumers with a common legal framework which places great value on product safety and helpful labelling without limiting the range of products on the shelves . 
No consumer should be put to great expense as a result of misrepresentation and no consumer should feel obliged to buy good health . 
We have been stringent in ensuring that false claims are never made for them , and that is why in the UK they have never been marketed as medicines . 
I would like to pick up one last point relating to what Mrs Sandbæk said . 
No one is forced to buy these products and those that do buy them tend to be well informed about their purchases . 
We must assume that the intelligence quotient of the average European citizen is reasonable . 
We must desist from getting into the &apos; nanny state &apos; frame of mind . 
I might reply to the question put by Mr de Roo regarding rail transport that the matter is also being looked into but no proposal has yet been made . 
I have listened to the users carefully and I have consulted widely . 
I would be ashamed if their Amendment No 9 is carried . I would be ashamed for every Member of this Parliament who puts their hand up or presses a button to vote for that amendment . 
I may be wrong - Commissioner , you may be able to tell me this - but I could not find in here any provision for mandatory fitting of seat belts . 
I was elected on a mandate to combat politicians &apos; inability to leave things alone . 
We have come a long way since then . 
A consensus has been reached between the Council , Parliament and Commission . 
We must see what type of regulatory reforms we can have which serve this purpose in an easier way . 
Countries must report on what they are doing to make the unemployed better able to meet the demands of the labour market . 
Encouragement must be given to the spirit of enterprise and to flexibility in the labour market , and countries must work to promote a better relationship between work and family life . 
We have done this precisely to promote a broader knowledge of European employment strategy . 
This decision must ensure that the employment policy we talk so much about is not just a matter of fine words , but that these are in actual fact backed by vigorous action . 
We shall have equality by attending to the matter of public social services , which also make it possible for women to be fully represented in the labour market . 
We can give extra resources where they are providing good jobs and meeting their targets and we can take them back when they are not doing it . 
It should be gender - specific to the maximum possible extent . 
They were advertised on the screen as commencing at 12.15 p.m. and for that reason some of us missed some of the early votes . 
We will look into this matter . 
This distinction has been drawn on sensible political grounds . 
We must bring these matters to a sound conclusion . 
The regulation will trigger a raft of reforms . 
What would be the result of this Austrian footballing analogy , I wonder ? 
I would claim that the reality is very different . 
I would like to tell them something : we have no great interest in constantly talking about what is wrong in Turkey , but let me explain why we express criticism when they exercise their mandate in Turkey . 
The money being given to the Turkish Government is in fact being spent on the continued repression of the Kurdish people and the refusal to find a political solution to the Kurdish problem . 
I would like to discuss a practical case in Turkey . 
It will do so not only by intensifying the Customs Union , but also by promoting economic and social development , which are essential aspects of an effective partnership . 
I feel bound to say in all honesty that the Commission would not be able to implement such a resolution because it simply does not have the money . 
We have achieved all this with a common effort , and these are all complex matters which call for more than one participant . 
We will be able to offer the still more than 14 million unemployed in the European Union real opportunities of taking part in this process of bringing about success . 
The Internet has been mentioned . 
I would like to offer a word of warning that not every sector should be deregulated straight away just for the sake of positive competitiveness . 
We can make them more effective and structure them positively . 
We will raise this issue again later in the year in the liberalisation debates in this House . 
I must admit that we Liberals are taking a rather guarded approach until we see the results of the Stockholm European Council . 
I would like to stress that Mr Bullmann has done a good job , but the report has become too wide in its scope and the large number of proposals has meant a loss of focus . 
We would have preferred a more concentrated approach and a clear list of priorities . 
I would like to make some suggestions regarding three broad areas to make this integration operate more smoothly . 
We must ensure that the Gothenburg report rearranges the order of Lisbon &apos; s priorities . 
Initiatives must be taken to limit the extent to which competition is introduced into various sectors . 
We must take this problem into consideration . 
It would be interesting to receive an answer on this . 
I am thinking particularly of the demand for full employment , but also the emphasis on dynamic growth , innovation and lifelong learning . 
We are moving forwards in terms of protecting intellectual property , which is also important if we want to mobilise research . 
We are sticking with the English version , in which the words " his or her " have been added . 
I support referring this draft directive back to committee because , after the standardisation of the European cucumber , we do not want the standardisation of the European bus as well . 
We shall vote against the report that Mr Bowe presented on behalf of the Conciliation Committee , since the revision of Directive 90/200 on deliberate release of GMOs has not met its anticipated objectives . 
I have voted against because I am opposed to the word &apos; voluntary &apos; which appears in the title . 
We have done this because we think it important that no unnecessary obstacles should be placed in the way of public service stations continuing to be a part of the overall media picture . 
We have attached crucial importance to public service stations naturally having to pay for the use of materials to which others have the rights . 
I am advised by a legal advisor that I do however have the right to vote as an individual author . 
These aspects must be borne in mind even when the new technologies are used . 
We can be proud of that and glad that this directive has been passed . 
We should leave things where they belong . 
It has taken nine years to get this legislation . 
I would like to point out that I can not concur with the speech given by Commissioner Fischler . 
I have consulted specialists who confirm that taking vitamins and minerals orally presents virtually no health risk . 
We must admit , however , that for once the Commission has made an effort in terms of prior consultation with users and manufacturers , cost - benefit studies and realistic economic and technical alternatives . 
You have been able to note , indeed , that the amendments concern two mere details . I shall discuss these in the latter part of my speech . 
I would like to make two points . 
I will take the opportunity to address the liberalisation aspect where there has not been a lot of reflection hitherto in Europe . 
What is required is not to touch them up to make them look better in one way or another but to make far - reaching change to the policy in this field . 
It has taken ten years finally to grant the topic political status . 
I would like to ask the Commission whether or not it intends to give effective impetus to the implementation of the open method of coordination , adopted by the Lisbon Council . 
I shall try to make a few comments . 
The debate has been full of ideas and very varied , and a number of aspects have been aired . 
This proposal was addressed by the Council in November 1999 . 
It was welcomed as a strong indication of the Union &apos;s desire to be anti - discriminatory in its actions . 
It has had the same effect on my fellow MEPs of the socialist group , with whom I usually manage to come to an agreement very quickly whenever I mention frontier work . 
I would ask Commissioner Solbes Mira whether this might not be a reason for joining our camp now , rather than waiting patiently for the moment when the Council , in its great wisdom , will take a decision ? 
I have heard his passionate plea before the Council for the recognition of the rights of the European Parliament and for Parliament to be able to play that role . 
He has given any response to what Mr Rocard has said . 
I would urge them too to roll up their sleeves in this area , as these people are still being discriminated against . 
Something must be done about this . 
It would be short - sighted to try to improve the position of frontier workers or third - country nationals in the present technical amendment without any chance of success . 
They are left with the choice of paying twice or else leaving , unless the Belgian government shows mercy . 
Someone might say that perhaps this is the last time . 
We have cooperated for years in order to break the deadlock in the issue of the free movement of persons and hence of frontier workers . 
I can understand why you think that the work on Regulation 1408 which has taken place since the Finnish Presidency in 1999 has seemed extremely long drawn out . 
I have received three draft resolutions submitted under Rule 42(5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
You have read out certain criteria ; then the criteria are applied and that is where there may sometimes be disagreement . 
I have listened carefully to your legal and political arguments on the matter and I shall pass them on . 
It has been confirmed by the Council in drawing up the framework for strengthening the common European security and defence policy since the European Council in Cologne in June 1999 when this process was set in motion . 
We must have a clear answer to this . 
We have asked a very clear question about whether an absolute mandate is required for military action . It is not about the general principles . 
I would like to be given a yes or no answer . 
It must be possible to mobilise 1 000 police within 30 days . 
I am telling you , this is really about people who suffer from this state of affairs . 
This proposal was tabled by the Commission on 21 February 2000 . 
I can assure you that the Swedish government will not accept any change whatsoever to Sweden &apos; s Freedom of the Press Act . 
I would like Mr Danielsson to confirm that it is the Prime Minister &apos; s absolute intention that the Constitution of Sweden will not be changed in any way . 
What is happening in southern Spain is much more serious than Dover , Mr Danielsson , and I believe it requires some interference , if I may use this expression . 
We have gone to the source , so to speak - to the cause of these types of migratory flows , and we have tried to put right the underlying problem . 
I am convinced that with joint efforts we can achieve success . 
We can consider this incident over , as is natural . 
I can assure you that , in the discussions concerning the situation in Afghanistan , the Council , too , is aware of the dreadful witness accounts to which the honourable Member refers . 
We are facing a situation of inhuman suffering for women and children . 
I can assure the honourable Member that the issue is being monitored very intensively by the Council so that we shall be able to take the measures that the situation requires . 
I would be interested to know what provisions you are making for the future . 
I do find it quite extraordinary that you say it is too early to talk about the detail of some of these plans , given that the Gothenburg Summit is not far away . 
I would like you , Mr President - in - Office , to explain your purpose regarding this matter . 
These strategies have been drawn up in accordance with the template decided on in Cardiff , whereupon the Commission &apos; s work remains to be done . 
I will attempt to answer them as briefly as possible . 
I would remind you of the important debate on this matter that we had in his Chamber approximately a month ago . 
The directive must ensure that creditors are treated equally . 
They have considered that the objectives pursued in this area have been duly preserved through the common position . 
They have understood that the difficult balance reached on this technically complex text , after so many years of discussion , should not be put in jeopardy . 
I can report that EU - Macao relations remain extremely good . 
I will outline some of these in a moment . 
It must include effective monitoring of human rights . 
We would like to underline how vital it is to monitor the human rights situation in Mexico as I have seen with my own eyes . 
I will follow it closely . 
The decision will comply with GATS rules - mainly the obligation not to exclude any sector from the liberalisation process . 
We should be satisfied by what we have achieved in this area . 
I must admit that both initiatives could actually be offered as a single initiative . They could be combined into a single proposal on the same legal base , that of the first pillar . 
It would have been easy to reject the proposals of the French government , which I criticised , as there is no common asylum and immigration policy . 
I should like to reiterate a number of issues that this House and the Council must take clearly into account when making future decisions . 
We should point out that some legal immigrants have been made illegal by restrictive legislation . Some of these have been living in Europe for over twenty years . 
What means is available to them to earn a living and support their families ? 
It is said that trafficking in human beings is a lucrative business , but I maintain that , with projects like this , it will become still more lucrative . 
It was sunk by the lobbies in the European Union and , consequently , pressure from migrations is growing ever stronger . 
We must address these challenges as one wide - ranging issue . 
We must do more to help those developing countries and help the countries that are war - torn and with regimes that we do not like . 
We shall try to do so by supporting the amendments that Mr Ceyhun has drawn up so well and also the amendments that Ms Cerdeira has added to the report . 
We have tried to define a balanced policy but the contradictory criticisms that have been made in this House show that we may well not have achieved this yet . 
I would like to hear the Commissioner &apos;s point of view on this matter . 
I must reiterate what a pleasure it has been to work with her on these matters . 
We must make that cooperation strong and vigorous . 
We will have to invigorate the European Research Area by making new efforts to promote the mobility of the researchers , as Mr Vidal - Quadras Roca so rightly said . 
We must renew it and make it more accessible , more flexible and more legible . 
We must look into the idea of integrated programmes , of networks of excellence , but , at the same time , we must not forget the smaller entities , which can act as sources of discovery and innovation . 
They should be opening up their projects to others more . 
I must be honest with you , Commissioner : if this initiative succeeds , you will deserve our warmest congratulations . 
We shall try to assist you in your efforts . 
I would like to fill in an important piece of detail within the framework . 
It has become a political fact . 
I would like to make a few comments on the various points raised in Mrs Plooij - van Gorsel &apos;s report and Members &apos; statements . 
We must consider how we propose to achieve this . 
We will be discussing that priority when we come to the new Framework Programme . 
We will have an opportunity to discuss this in greater detail when we come to consider the proposal for the Framework Programme . 
It will be a major theme of that discussion . 
It is defined according to the subject of the research , which must be carried out at least at European level if it is to match up to world competition . 
We have drafted a communication on development with my colleague Mr Nielson , which will be on the Commission &apos;s agenda next week . 
I do believe that granting over - generous aid in favourable market situations should be avoided . 
We do have a little time to spare , which is why I am not being quite so strict as I might be . Nevertheless , we ought to keep to our speaking times . 
We would prefer to use the precedent which we established in the case of dual - use goods of a vote now to reject the Council &apos;s proposal . 
Members may be interested to know that in order to reject the proposal , we have to vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution . 
We are asking Parliament to now vote in favour of the legislative resolution which rejects the Council &apos;s text . 
I can confirm that , as is being communicated to me on my headphones by the services . 
We can do it in accordance with the procedure that you propose . 
I shall ensure that the President , Mrs Fontaine , communicates our displeasure to the Council . 
I am asking Parliament to do as we did before - to vote in favour of this in order to reject the Council &apos;s proposal . 
We have voted against paragraph 1 of the motion for resolution which states that Article 42 of the Treaty of Amsterdam is to be the legal basis for securing social security rights for third - country citizens . 
I have told you this story because we have to realise that we must do something practical in our immigration policy , not just talk and cry " Wolf ! " . 
We have voted against the report as a whole , while voting in favour of the amendments which might temper or eliminate the despicably repressive nature of the French proposals . 
I have voted against the report and against many of the amendments submitted by the Committee on Citizens &apos; Freedoms , Justice and Home Affairs . 
What should be combated , rather , is this ever more restrictive visa and asylum policy which forces people to enter European Union territory illegally . 
We have voted against the Korakas report , on aid for cotton production . 
I would add that , as a new Member , I have possibly not become familiar with all the parliamentary conventions in the course of a year and a half . 
We are acting as if everything that has taken place in Yugoslavia over the last ten to twelve years did not take place . 
We must hold the Serbs to their promises which , however splendid they may be , as yet exist only on paper . 
It is pursuing the right path , and we should support it . 
I should like to assure Mr Dupuis that there were six of us from Parliament who spent the weekend visiting the new leaders in Belgrade . 
We are making a fuss of him , and supporting him , and when he came to power we quite rightly told him that there must be immediate emergency aid . 
We must use it to make clear once and for all to Mr Kostuníca and his regime that he will have to take fundamental steps to solve the problems in Kosovo . 
It must be different in the Balkans . 
The resolutions adopted are also in line with the political positions adopted by the Union , which unreservedly condemns violence and terrorism . 
He was eliminated by the very people who helped bring him to power . 
Organisations are banned , people are locked up and death sentences are liberally used . 
They must be able to contribute freely . 
We can help to achieve this . 
No attempt has been made to bring those who abused and exploited her to justice . 
We should remember that we in the European Union and the United States of America are the main trading partners of Nigeria . 
I would ask the European Commission to take into consideration standards of human rights in all the aid schemes and cooperation schemes that the European Union puts into effect . 
Fundamentalists have set fire to the newspaper &apos; s offices in Peshawar . 
The meeting will consider what is the best way to deal with these various topics . In the meantime , you ask what we are able to do . 
We must tell our Russian partners quite clearly that this is a sine qua non in our eyes and that it is high time they started negotiating with the elected representatives of the Chechen people . 
They have set up a committee , supported by all parties , dedicated to active disaster management . 
We have seen enormous material damage , families made homeless , injured and even killed . 
This mission will work in close conjunction with the Member States , and its results will enable us to decide better how to carry out future initiatives in cooperation with other international institutions as well . 
We must work towards ensuring that this responsibility is set out quite clearly . 
I would call again on the Irish Government to accept the Ecofin decision and to sit down with the Commission to discuss how it can best be implemented . 
It would be more natural to hold the best pupil in the class up as a model . 
Inflation has fallen from 6 per cent in November to 3.9 per cent in January , and there is everything to indicate that it will continue to fall . 
Reference has been made to the public comments made by Mr Prodi regarding the criticism of Ireland which , up until now , has been presented as a model of success . 
I will give to the Commissioner a list of figures to put it into context . 
It would be opportunistic to conceal this . 
We would like to thank him in advance and we hope that we will be able to improve the system on this basis . 
The minister is reputed to be a sportsman . 
A sportsman should have obeyed the referee when he blew the whistle when somebody broke the rules . 
We are talking about consistency with the model we had duly established . 
We could talk in much more detail . 
I would ask you whether you believe that policy assessments of this kind exempt the Commission from its duty to apply the Treaties in the forms in which they are established . 
The matter was debated by the special group of the Economic and Financial Committee after each and every one of the arguments put forward by the Irish Government had been analysed . 
I am told that your suggestion is still being examined and that no satisfactory solution has yet been found . 
I must say that this is absurd since it would mean that many of us would have to travel here on a Sunday so that others could have Friday free . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday , 15 February 2001 . 
We have been working hard since that Conference of Presidents . 
I have asked for clarification and am told that a letter has just arrived , to which I have not yet replied . 
It has been a difficult year and I am aware that some sections of our staff are concerned at these rapid , far - reaching changes , which have come on top of an already heavy daily work schedule . 
We will return to those details on future occasions . 
They are based firmly on the reality that the most valuable resource of any administration is its staff . 
We will fulfil that commitment . 
That hope has been fully realised . 
The reform should proceed as quickly as possible in order to avoid the demoralisation and destabilisation of the staff of the European public service . 
I have encountered no sour attitudes . 
I have encountered some good arguments and we are always ready to engage in those . 
I should like to address two problems . 
I should like , therefore , to ask three questions . 
We have seen today that the Council has taken a unilateral decision to organise an event to launch the debate on the future of the European Union on the seventh . 
We must put an end to this situation . 
We are required to decide on a measure which stretches our credulity to the limit . 
We would like answers to all such questions , because it is unacceptable that diseases should break out and we should have no resources to do anything about it . 
We will lose all credibility with the honest and blameless European farmers if we vote for this supplementary budget . 
Cows have gone mad because they have been given a dose of politics . 
Cows have gone mad because they have had to swallow the common agricultural policy that the European Commission has forced down their throats for nigh on thirty years . 
I would urge the Commission again to examine the possibilities and its policy in relation to food aid . 
It will take time to restore confidence . 
We would do irreversible harm to the process of European integration if we did not find a common response to this general crisis , which is the first truly general crisis in the Union . 
We must do this in a calm way . 
Consumption can return , and it has returned in the UK . 
It has been a painful process , but now is not the time to make a judgment on exactly what in six months &apos; time the consumption will be in Europe . 
I would have preferred to hear the Commissioner plan for what consumption will be for the next three or four years and take immediate measures to reduce production . 
We are saying that we are only prepared to do so with cofinancing . A proportion must also be funded by the Member States . 
We must be prepared for this possibility . 
You will be aware that the first outbreak was confirmed on 20 February in the evening . 
I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the UK for its very firm action to bring the outbreak under control . 
This ban has been prolonged for another fortnight . 
The situation was reviewed at a meeting of the Standing Veterinary Committee yesterday . 
That decision was taken at a Commission meeting this morning . 
I will caution , however , against drawing any immediate conclusions . 
I would like to express to the farming community in the United Kingdom our great sympathy and concern with this situation . 
It would entail huge costs and potential loss of trade . 
It would be an enormous decision with many implications . 
Authorities are keeping the farm under close surveillance and it has been closed . 
I will have clarification of that situation later in the day . 
We have been remarkably free in the European Union from foot - and - mouth disease over that period of time . 
We had hoped that we would get away with it unscathed but it shows just how dangerous and highly contagious this disease is , through the way animals move . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner one question . 
This objective can be pursued by means of a body of ex ante rules harmonised at European level , which are of a transitional and exceptional nature . 
It would be an important addition to citizens &apos; rights . 
Investors have begun to shun the industry and the production of the next generation of networks , equipment and services is slowing down . 
I should like to address a problem which currently hits operators hard in practice . 
The institutions have agreed , after years of arduous discussion , that different legal rules are needed for infrastructure and content . 
It would be very good if a plan of action could be agreed there . 
I should like to mention here a number of elements , which strike me as important in this context . 
We must ensure that the Commission is able to fulfil its task in that area and to guarantee that true competition is created and that a Europe - wide market becomes a reality . 
We are getting the balance right on this issue , and this I hope will actually counter concerns over the mounting debt in this sector at present . 
I would ask the Commissioner to take a more active role in future in formulating the conditions and in relation to the way in which frequencies are distributed . 
Auctions should be avoided wherever possible . 
This communication must be free . 
The auctions have sabotaged the e - Europe project . 
I would like to think so , although it is not certain it would have . 
He is calling for a thorough investigation into the financial effects of auctions . 
We have had difficulty in reconciling the texts . 
We have spent an enormous amount of time on significant market power and deciding how to regulate it , instead of actually thinking about the way forward . 
The rapporteurs have done excellent work here . 
I must point out that in the Committee on Women &apos; s Rights and Equal Opportunities , certain amendments have been introduced into the report which neither I , as rapporteur , nor my group , agree with . 
I would like to ask you to reconsider so that , by removing these terms , we can have a report which is approved by the whole House . 
I should like to banish totally the suspicion that we might be discussing something which would then require formalisation . 
I would ask you sincerely to consider this option . 
I would have much more confidence in rules which bring about deregulation but also grant much greater freedoms and rights to immigrant women rather than attempting to replace consensus on policies with awareness campaigns . 
The report should cover these tasks more amply . 
I would remind you that enlargement to the East is imminent , bringing with it many women with different traditions and different cultures who need to be attended to , not sidelined . 
We should reiterate , however , the basic principle of a sustainable development policy . 
We must take away this fundamental ambiguity . 
I am asking my fellow Members to do this by adopting an amendment that has , moreover , already been adopted by the Joint Parliamentary Assembly . 
We must do our utmost to make development policy in such a way that the divide between North and South is bridged . 
I am gratified by the attention paid to this in the Commission document and should like to express the wish that all our trade measures should be assessed on their consequences for the developing countries . 
I should like to hear from the rapporteur whether funding of programmes for abortion also falls under this heading . 
It may encourage research into tropical medicines , but it is mainly the European taxpayer who is likely to foot the bill . 
I would like to take advantage of this time available to me to raise two or three points of a different kind . 
We must endeavour to respond to this question or we will be in danger of never being able to make any headway when we discuss the subject . 
I have seen no sign of this . 
We have had to limit ourselves to some extent because there are many things we do not know enough about to be delivering good assistance in those fields . 
They are reducing the number of dangerous and illegal abortions carried out in this world and not the other way around . 
This report must include the provisions which are adopted by the management committee of the fisheries sector in implementation of the provisions of that regulation . 
We have included both new and existing provisions in these regulations . 
I should point out that it is primarily the duty of the Member States to implement Community law , in all areas . 
I would urge the Commission to bear this in mind during the forthcoming negotiations . 
I would like in conclusion to point out that the Council had already adopted this proposal last Monday . 
I would hope not but I would sincerely hope that the Commission and the Council will take on - board the recommendations contained in my report before adopting a more permanent protocol . 
He is convinced that our intervention in particular played a significant role in securing his release . 
I would like to make it clear that I personally played very little part in this process so I am all the more delighted to be able to pass on his thanks . 
I would like to say a word or two about the sanctions and the efforts to improve the miserable lot of the Iraqi people . 
It must be acknowledged that the economic sanctions have not destabilised Saddam Hussein , something that Commissioner Patten has indeed just confirmed ; they have instead caused the Iraqi people very great harm and suffering . 
I have talked to the families of prisoners who are still in Iraq from the Iran / Iraq war of 1981 - 1988 . 
I have been to Kurdistan . I have seen the results of the chemical weapons . 
We could talk at great length about this issue . 
It is estimated that 1.5 million people have died since the introduction of sanctions . 
Everyone can draw their own conclusions from this . 
Another proposal has been a joint interparliamentary body between national parliaments and Members of this Parliament . 
We would have seen once again as we saw in 1991 , the use of helicopter gunships and aircraft to murder , to gas and to displace . 
This basis must be Article 310 of the Treaty . A number of reasons for this have already been given , notably that this legal basis guarantees Parliament &apos; s assent . 
They have shown great loyalty and responsibility - I would term it political responsibility - in being true to the outline of the initiative launched by him . 
I would like to know what the Commission and Mr Patten &apos; s views on the matter are . 
I would ask Mr Patten &apos; s aides to pass the questions posed by Mrs Díez González on to him . 
It has been argued that that is not Europe whereas in fact European companies are setting up in the countries concerned . 
We should take into account that the other party we are dealing with ranks fourth in the world in these fields . It also has great potential for growth . 
We might consider this option if sufficient and substantial progress is made . 
It is suggested that we should eliminate the two - phased negotiating approach . 
We can respond very favourably to the honourable lady &apos; s request and we will be discussing exactly the mechanism that we can use shortly with Mercosur and Chile . 
We have said for years that we must put in place much stricter rules than we have today to promote respect for nature and health , without increasing the burden on taxpayers . 
Consumers have lost their confidence in farming and it can only be restored by developing sustainable agriculture . 
We have chosen to vote against Amendments 23 , 25 and 53 . 
We have voted against the overall report , because we think that the agreement with the Republic of Equatorial Guinea involves the economic exploitation of that country . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday , 1 March 2001 . 
I would ask you , Madam President , to take the initiative and request the Commissioner to come to Parliament this week to make an up - to - date statement on this crisis . 
A debate was held at the Conference of Presidents to determine whether this question should be included in the agenda for this part - session . 
We will continue to pursue this issue . 
We will be looking very closely at the reasons why this process has taken so long . 
I should like to assure you that never happened , although I did give evidence in a case which involved a Member for whom a similar request was made . 
The situation has reached dramatic proportions . 
I am intrigued to see Commissioner Lamy here this afternoon . 
We might improve it , on the other hand , by voting in favour of the amendments that I have just presented . 
It is anticipated that this committee will report back to the Greater London Assembly by the summer . 
I have tabled some more for the vote tomorrow , along similar lines . 
We are united in our condemnation of violence against people and property , because it is counterproductive . 
The risks are considered to be small and , thanks to the stringent regulations in force , accidents have been avoided for almost half a century . 
It would be useful if the Commission were to focus on the transport of nuclear material in the European Union , however . 
We would like to emphasise that , in the interests of a consistently high safety level , the rules will have to be implemented by all Member States at the beginning of next year . 
We will be clarifying our position on those areas in a series of further recommendations in a few months &apos; time , but certainly before the new multilateral round opens in Qatar at the beginning of November . 
I would like to mention Mrs Flemming in particular , who has put forward some very interesting proposals . 
I should like to stress three points in this report that I believe are essential . 
I was wondering if you could perhaps expand on what the implications of GATS might be on utilities which have already been privatised . 
We must work with civil society as we do with the developing countries and allow a frank exchange of views . 
It has been such a success that our citizens are often rather alarmed by it , and suspect that it is rather sinister . 
You can interpret it in any number of ways , so let me put a few questions to you . 
We are making very slow progress in Geneva in what are really the preparations for talks on agriculture and services , while we know full well that only a comprehensive round will really be able to catalyse any relaunch . 
It is termed &apos; compulsory licensing &apos; and is authorised in cases where exceptions are justified on public health grounds or in a health emergency . 
We shall return to that matter when the time comes . 
It has been in force for 32 years , since 1968 , but of course it has been repeatedly adapted . 
It would be wrong to change the compensation system for storage costs ... 
He can roll over as much as he likes , but this Parliament should resist any temptation to roll over the sugar regime yet one more time . 
I would call on the Commission to carefully study the different scenarios and take enlargement into consideration before it presents us with new proposals in 2003 . 
I will be supporting my electorate , who are large sugar producers , and I will not be supporting the multinationals who are lobbying very hard . 
The policy is said to be expensive and cost the consumers dearly . 
I would like the Commission to tell us whether it thinks that , after 2003 , there will be more resources and this provisional amendment will be justified . 
This effort must be continued and increased manifold . 
This portfolio has been taken away from people who have actually been doing a fairly good job over the last few months and years . 
I should like to have seen the President of the Commission here this evening . 
You have said that information and communication are of great importance . 
I would like to make a few brief comments . 
It may be disastrous for individual companies . 
I would like , finally , to remind you that the Council asked the Commission to look into the possibility of facilitating access to aid for research and development . 
I would like to start by emphasising that the Commission is fully aware of the importance of European shipbuilding and of the specific difficulties encountered by many shipyards . 
We will make every endeavour to ensure that it is ready within the timeframe set by the Council , should it be needed . 
I would like to start by explaining the origins of the capacity restraints and the reasons why they have been imposed . 
It must be stressed that the aid was intended to ensure the survival of the yards in question , which would not have been able to operate on Western markets without carrying out a far - reaching restructuring process . 
I would like to remind you that the issue we are dealing with today is by no means a recent one . 
We can conclude that the previous system was both unhelpful for its declared objective , that is Korea , and vastly harmful within the single market . 
I would ask the President to come to a better arrangement with Air France . 
We must share responsibility for this serious problem which the whole of European society is obliged to confront . 
These rights must be reflected in this initiative . 
I would like to be clear about who will be checking all these documents in future . 
I would urge them very strongly to use their right of veto in the Council and put a stop to it . 
The carriers should check on departure whether passengers have the necessary travel documents or visas and , if need be , refuse to carry the people concerned . 
It must implement all of them , as the Commission is trying to do . 
We must have the framework first and then look at how it is best implemented and whether such harmonisation is appropriate . 
We have spoken a great deal here today about crime . 
They have been told that these people are easy to recognise ! 
We must ensure that appropriate provisions are in place . 
We should ensure that these people are not forced to return to their countries if that is going to create desperate problems for them . 
I would have thought that it would be rather odd to treat them differently if domestic legislation did not . 
This solidarity is reflected first of all in the financial aspect , thanks to the links created with the European Refugee Fund . 
We should be asking how it is possible that we , the richest part of the world , so consistently choose repressive solutions . 
I would recommend those of you who take an interest in legal matters to compare the first and second drafts . 
They will appear in the Minutes and should then reach the Council . 
It is used to support the argument that the Council should have the right to exercise implementing powers in this area . 
It must go without saying that every refugee who wishes to stay within the EU must have his case carefully examined . 
We are bound to be shocked by the pictures of Kurdish families , dreaming of peace and freedom , who came to seek a future without persecution . 
We must seek out and penalise those who exploit illegal labour . 
We must guarantee that freedom of movement . 
I would like to thank all the Members for their cooperation and Mrs Terrón , in particular , for the amendment she tabled , which has enhanced and complemented our work . 
It could be said that there were two different camps in the Committee on Citizens &apos; Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs . 
The network will provide the Council and the Commission with the information they need to draw up appropriate crime prevention strategies . 
It was said of bureaucratic monstrosities such as Europol , Eurodac and Eurojust that it is precisely they which now prevent us from regulating criminal policies . 
What will be done with the millions of euros allocated to this programme every year ? 
The rapporteur was made aware of this beforehand . 
The rapporteur has asked for the floor . 
We would ask you to include in the Rules of Procedure a clause to the effect that any interests must be notified beforehand so as to avoid even the semblance of a conflict of interests . 
This proposal was designed to prevent the tragedies that result from the actions of unscrupulous carriers who are prepared to exploit human distress and misery . 
I have witnessed first hand the very casual attitude of many of the lorry drivers and their companies . 
These carriers must do more - they must properly check all vehicles and all modes of transport to try to avoid another Dover - type tragedy . 
I am opposed to nuclear reprocessing and I believe that all reprocessing plants in the UK and elsewhere should be closed . 
I can remember the 1950s , when most people believed that nuclear fission would yield unlimited resources of clean and safe energy in future . 
The rapporteur is showing some degree of understanding for those campaigns and wants to curb the risks , but continues to allow and justify further transport of this kind . 
The competition is forced to choose between cheaper deliveries or going under . 
The discussions have led to clear progress in at least three key areas . 
I would like to ask the Commissioner a couple of questions about that . 
I can think of just one moot point which I should like to ask the Commission to explain . 
It is considered that training is completed by the age of 23 . 
It will be a matter for the court , the Court of Arbitration , to judge who is right . 
I must inform you that we did not want disciplinary measures to be taken solely against players , because clubs often sell their players for purely commercial reasons rather than reasons related to sport . 
I would like to quickly reiterate that the rules of the game are to keep the questions and answers as short as possible . 
They would be very happy for you to visit us in the north - west . 
They were concerned and asked me to explain the terms of the agreement . 
We have done more about the specific characteristics of sport than merely make a statement we have put words into practice . 
I would like to find out what guarantees are being built in so that the solidarity fund will actually benefit the smaller clubs and the training clubs , and can actually contribute to the social function of the sport . 
I am thinking of the composition and criteria for allocating funding , for example . 
The partnership has been invaluable in proving that we can come to some agreement on this issue . 
I would like the Commissioner to say whether she is going to look again at whether all clubs could be treated on the same level . 
What would happen if that legal challenge is successful ? 
It has been decided how the system will work and we will only know if it works when it is implemented . 
We have discussed huge transfer sums , but not the hundreds of thousands of people who give their private lives and free time to work with young people and their sports clubs . 
I can be particularly forthright in saying that in this particular case , because this initiative emanates from my own country . 
We must recall that the Treaties of the European Union incorporated judicial cooperation in civil matters in 1993 . 
This matter may be highlighted to an even greater extent with the advent and introduction of the single currency next year . 
What is needed now is a concrete proposal for a regulation to be adopted by the Council and Parliament under the codecision procedure . 
We will wait for all the reports and will study the Commission &apos; s behaviour in those situations , before passing judgment . 
That discrepancy will need to be done away with . 
We can support Mr Bösch &apos; s late amendment on Switzerland . 
I should like to reiterate that we are all determined to combat fraud and recover the money . 
We must do our best to protect it . 
I should like to focus on the type of liability the House might invoke . In the first place , there is penal liability as it applies to individual owners of processing plants . 
We must make sure that these two things are not confused . 
I would like to point out that we are actually talking about a very important review of the subject , which the Aarhus Convention set in motion . 
It may be that a lot of environmental and health - related information will be withheld from the public if such a line is not drawn . 
They would be unable to operate if they did not receive the necessary information within the set time periods . 
I should like to raise a few points with which we might have difficulty . 
I would urge that we go down that road , leaving discretion on the publication of charges . 
It was showcased at a conference on 6 March in Brussels . 
They have raised this concern on a number of occasions yet they continue to be informed that their consumers are lodging complaints about current practice which it is indeed difficult to accept . 
These words have prompted concern amongst trade - union organisations . 
They have been duly transposed into the national law of the Member States and any conflict or litigation arising from the application of the rules should be assessed by the relevant national authorities . 
You can use the ECSC Treaty . We only have one year now to use it . 
What is going to happen ? 
I do expect , however , that it will only take three or four weeks until the first decisions emerge . 
It would be a bit late to tell people about enlargement after the accession Treaties have been concluded . 
Responsibility is spread somewhat more widely . 
I must say quite plainly here that I believe this would mean overstepping boundaries that we should not overstep , particularly in terms of interference . 
I shall try to answer all three questions at the same time . 
I can inform you , though , that already the whole of Europe is involved in an extensive debate . 
The issue was dealt with entirely openly in all the Member States . 
She has tackled this issue with an enormous amount of dedication and enthusiasm . 
We must resolve the various minority situations before they develop into problems . 
I can reassure Mrs Ferrer that Catalan has not been omitted . 
This list was drawn up by your predecessor , Mrs Wulf - Matthies and the deadlines specified at that time have not been met . 
I am striving to be objective and to shoulder my responsibilities . 
We should continue along this path . 
We must take this step forward , but inevitably we must also allow for the fact that this step needs to be accommodated not just by the environment but economically as well . 
I have proposed an adaptation in Amendment No 43 . 
We have known about the problem for at least 30 years , and it is now time to do something about it . 
Nothing would be as intended if too many exceptions were granted . 
The committee is imposing substantially stricter limits with no adequate differentiation being made with regard to their size and type . 
I would add to this that the effects of ammonia emission are also partly a local phenomenon , and that a lower goal can therefore also be justified . 
The list could extend much further . 
It will go no further , it says . 
I would like Member States to be more ambitious . 
It may be that the Commissioner secretly wishes Parliament to pursue its original agenda . 
I am waiting with interest to hear from the Commissioner whether she has been keeping cards close to her chest or whether her public position remains the same . 
We must move towards water - based paints , and it is time that rules were drafted to that effect . 
We must solve these problems . 
We can accept in part and in principle the second part of Amendment No 7 and Amendment No 9 . 
I do hope , of course , that the report will provide evidence that the recommendation has borne fruit , that our environmental legislation has become more effective , that the situation has improved . 
It will help if the citizens of Europe are kept informed about implementation and we are proposing different ways of doing that . 
The amendments will tighten up the requirements in the recommendation . 
I would be most grateful if that small technical correction could be made . I am sure all manufacturers of car heating systems would also be grateful . 
I have submitted them to the committee and it has approved them . 
We should be directing policy in the way it is going , but we should not be discussing technicalities which would have been better addressed elsewhere . 
I would like to suggest to the Commission that some of us get together at some point in the near future to stop this sort of report coming on to the agenda of Parliament . 
They should be discussed within the appropriate forum where engineers , technicians , scientists etc . , or whatever technical group , would look at these specifications rather than coming to me . 
It has been asked why this proposal has been put forward . 
Outsiders might find it difficult to understand why we spend our time on directives like this . 
This report will pave the way to a speedy adoption of this directive . 
We are backing renewable energy in particular , and there are encouraging examples in this domain , such as pellet - fuelled heating , with which heat and power can be cogenerated very efficiently . 
That consensus is leading to the joint initiative he mentioned , which we shall be announcing tomorrow . 
We have been talking about them for the last ten or fifteen years . 
It has come to my attention that was not the case earlier this week . 
We will place great emphasis on what the various political groups in Europe , inside and outside this House , have to say . 
The process will continue and the participants will inspire each other . 
The question has been asked - let the debate commence ! 
I will add another question : how do we reform the Community model ? 
You have launched a website . 
This debate must yield results . 
I can understand , with the impression made by Nice and the power games played out there , why one side or the other is tempted to resort to aggressive or belligerent words . 
You have said that we have to organise the debate . 
This debate must have conclusions , which will make up the second phase . 
This debate would be frustrating for the participants if it did not include room for drawing up and proposing ideas . 
You have called for maximum transparency in the debate now beginning and in the whole process described in the Nice Declaration , with a debate as close as possible to the citizens . 
It must be remembered that Europe is not just a Europe of central institutions and Member States . 
This method would be very dangerous . 
We must stay close to the people , move at their speed and stay orderly to stay productive . 
It must be an event that leads to some form of action . 
We can wrap this up by the end of 2003 . 
I would have listened gladly to at least some sort of attempt to reply to one or other of these questions . 
This site is going through a running - in phase so please show a little understanding . 
It was opened barely a week ago . 
I would add that we will also continue to meet with national parliaments , which has not been normal practice for the Commission up till now . 
I would like to thank each and every one of you , especially the group chairpersons who expressed their desires and their agreement with the ideas or the guidelines of the Commission . 
We will continue to work together . 
I can assure the President - in - Office of the Council that the name of the representative of the European Parliament on 7 March is not mentioned in the English version . 
The work will be carried out both with community law and the new open coordination method . 
We will seek to establish a number of important social objectives for equal opportunities , diversity and participation in the workplace . 
We will seek to forge ahead with the reform of the financial markets and achieve a common market for financial services by 2005 at the latest and for risk capital by 2003 at the latest . 
It will become the Commission &apos;s key instrument for coordinating social and economic policy . 
We must ensure they have the skills needed for types of work that may be new to them . 
This policy should help ease labour shortages , improve intergenerational equity and give the citizens a more satisfying old age . 
This process must be enhanced . 
It will make clear the true scale of the demographic problem so that the European public can understand it . 
Action is required now to prevent social systems from losing public credibility . 
We would like to stress that excessive regulation , too much faith in the omnipotence of legislation , and burdensome taxation are the worst enemies of employment . 
We must have educational establishments maintained by the state , but we also need private ones so that a competition situation may develop , based both on the students and the choice of different educational approaches . 
We can do better in many areas . 
I would like to make one final comment on the public finances you mentioned . 
What will happen if the economic situation deteriorates and the Council gains more right - wing governments ? 
I have asked the appropriate departments to take quick action but I , like you , am impatient for this noise to stop . 
We must have the courage to set decisive priorities . 
It will be a first step towards explaining how the European Union is going to deliver on sustainable development . 
It was decided in Lisbon to speed up the liberalisation of postal services . 
I have requested information myself from the local authority and the regional Commissioner but so far without success . 
Disclosure could cost them money . 
Files are drafted , but nobody knows what is in them , except for the officials involved . 
PCs can be found in many households , schools , colleges and offices . 
One would have expected to find proposals for measures - mainly social and economic measures - to relieve this situation or , at the very least , to stem the rising crime rate through prevention . 
We must be tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime . 
We must develop contact points and crime prevention strategies , and support crime prevention activities at local and national level across the European Union . 
I have had a problem with the courts , a civil case which has dragged on and on . 
That notion is reinforced by stories about enormous unsalable supplies for which there is seemingly no market which have been doing the rounds for decades . 
We have come a long way since the fraud and mismanagement report of the Commission which led to its resignation in 1999 , but there is still much work to do . 
I would have liked to see more attention paid to employment and social policy . 
This debate must take place within the framework of a mutual process of evaluation and learning which will contribute to improving the operation of the single market . 
Unemployment has been reduced to a large - but not by any means full - extent . 
Regulation may feel like cost - free political points to politicians , but someone has to pay the bill . 
What will make us able , in fact , to modernise and not just liberalise Europe is our ability to combine economic reforms and social reforms . 
I would like to take this opportunity to give a general answer on the way the Swedish Presidency approaches preventive work within the Union . 
These issues must involve the whole Union and all institutions . 
We are trying to establish close long - term cooperation at all levels between the EU and the UN . 
We are working hard to turn the target of 5 000 police into reality . 
He has raised an important debate . 
We will put forward proposals , for example , to build the objectives of peace and democratic stability more clearly into our assistance programmes . 
We will place greater emphasis in future on support for the building of stable institutions and the rule of law including , of course , the police and the administration of justice . 
What is happening on these two borders threatens , if it is not tackled firmly and rapidly , to reverse much of the recent , very heartening progress that has been made in the region . 
I would characterise the challenges we face under three headings . 
We will work closely with Parliament , as well as the Council , on these issues . We will certainly keep Parliament fully informed . 
We can take initiatives in this field which are not available to others and if we do that constructively we will make a reality of the construction of a common foreign and security policy . 
I should like to raise another point in this connection . 
I would like to thank Commissioner Patten who has pointed out very clearly how vital it is that we provide the human resources so as to add substance to civil strategy . 
This issue will be discussed in the PrepCom which will be taking place in New York between 19 and the end of March . 
We must propose new solutions to our Macedonian interlocutors which go much further and which can tackle both the frustration of the Albanians and the deep concerns of the Slav - Macedonian population . 
This topic has been discussed many a time in this Parliament , also during the Bosnian wars , because radio and TV have a huge impact on what people think , and how they view each other . 
They must be able to work proactively and provide for crisis management . 
I would be very happy if the Commissioner could look into that . 
I would like to ask the Representative of the Council if the Council knows about this work . 
I will hand you over to Commissioner Patten to answer this question in more detail . 
I would like to respond to four questions which were put during the course of the debate . 
We should continue to support the government of the FYROM in all its efforts to build a successful pluralist open society in the FYROM . 
They have done an excellent job so far and we will continue to support them against the extremist threats with which they have to contend . 
I can assure the honourable Member that we will do that . 
It has been invaluable for the Council and the presidency to be able to discuss these issues with you on an on - going basis . 
I should like to say a word on the question of whether democracy costs time . 
Experience has shown that we are able to complete important legislative procedures in two years with the new codecision procedure . 
I must inform you that , in accordance with the agenda , the present debate is suspended and will be resumed at 9.00 p.m. 
Measures have been taken there similar to those taken in the UK . 
I would hope that this greater good is not lost sight of in the present crisis . 
It was detected in a cattle farm under restrictions imposed preventatively more than a week prior to the confirmation of the outbreak . 
I was reassured by the Secretary that these measures will be reviewed urgently . 
I would like to conclude with an assurance that the Commission will continue to put all its resources into eradicating this outbreak as quickly as possible . 
We have brought the Irish community to a standstill . 
They have explained the situation in England . 
We must know how much it will cost . 
We are facing an extremely virulent strain and the environmental conditions lead us to fear the worst . 
What is going to happen with regard to wild animals , Commissioner ? 
You have stood by your word . 
What remains is to ensure that the broadcasts reach the widest possible audience . 
I must admit that the presidency &apos;s reply seems in itself to be quite clear . 
I can assure Mr Gahrton that the Swedish Government will do all it can to ensure that citizens are as informed as possible . 
The presidency will use all of these contributions as the basis for drawing up a coherent strategy which will summarise the results of the environmental integration process , with proposals for how these results will be monitored . 
Opinions may differ on whether or not it would be desirable to have common criteria . 
I must say , however , that the matter of secondary legislation is a very important one . 
I have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Rule 42(5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
I shall endeavour to do my best under the circumstances . 
We must be critical of the fact that consolidation efforts have come to a standstill in numerous countries . 
We must improve the framework conditions for innovative start ups . We must make it easier to invest in information and communications technologies . 
Competitiveness is judged by whether it makes full use of its wealth - creating resources in comparison with other economies . 
We must protect ourselves from the extremes of a non - social economy . 
Citizens are required , on certain occasions , to cast their vote , but the process of building democracy is a daily task . 
I should like , Mr President , to focus very briefly on the role that the European Parliament should play in these processes . 
I would say it is better placed to do this than the national parliaments . Thirdly , the European Parliament is ultimately one of the two branches of budgetary authority . 
Observers can be manipulated and played off against each other . 
They can be used as alibis to legitimise a regime which has gained power via unlawful means . 
People are sent out without being properly briefed , knowing the background or talking the official language . 
The communication was designed to boost our performance in this whole area . 
I would like in particular to comment on a few issues raised by the report . 
We will share their findings with other institutions in order to involve Parliament at an early stage , as the report suggests that we should . 
The aim should be to promote changes and build capacity so that international observation becomes unnecessary . 
I would like to congratulate Mr Fava once again on his report which offers sensible and valuable advice as to how we can raise our game in this whole area . 
I have tried in my report to place Ukraine in a wider pan - European context . 
I would like to make one criticism , however . The committee adopted too many amendments , in my opinion . 
We should expect Ukraine to take action . 
It means adopting market - oriented legislation . 
It has brought to the fore not just the issue of journalistic freedom but of a pluralistic society and the way executive power is exercised in Ukraine . 
I can assure Parliament that we made our position abundantly clear . 
The report has proposed enhanced attention to certain activities . 
We should leave it that way but of course monitor it and make sure it works for the benefit of all the citizens that use it . 
The delegates will have come back from Melbourne by now , but there was still nothing about it on the Internet when I left my room . 
I shall conclude by saying that in the report &apos; s conclusions , I included a few lines on how I think the Joint Parliamentary Assembly should operate . 
I would ask you to vote in favour of the former . 
I have prepared this report twice . 
We have built many of Mr Martínez Martínez &apos;s ideas into the new rules . 
We can involve civil society - this is desperately important . 
He has looked particularly at the texts of the six amendments , to make sure that they do not introduce any principles outside the directives &apos; original political remit and he is satisfied in this case . 
The exercise has gone beyond a pure codification and that is why this is a &apos; recast &apos; version . 
They have recommended to Members of Parliament that you should approve this proposal without any amendment and I invite Parliament to follow the recommendation of the rapporteur and approve the proposal without amendments . 
Another method would be to introduce cost - covering prices for water and to irrigate plants individually rather than submerging the fields and allowing between 90 % and 95 % of the precious water to evaporate . 
Everyone would gain from that . 
I would like to ask Mr Liikanen to clarify this on behalf of Mrs Wallström . 
I must ask you , honourable Member , not to distort the Commission &apos; s position . 
We must stop that before it happens . 
You could have put the question more directly from the start . First of all , I would like to know if you have read it . 
It would raise problems with far - reaching constitutional consequences for our Member States . 
They must be fully and very openly discussed and studied with the public ; they must be monitored and safeguarded by effective regulation . 
I would suggest that Amendments Nos 9 and 27 are premature in that they seek to close off such consideration and decision . 
We have produced an opinion that is forward - looking and constructive , and , at the same time , balanced . 
Biotechnology could have immense importance for regional policy . 
We would hope that the Commission will read carefully those requests that appear in the report inter alia to measure the net impact on the environment . 
These issues must be taken very seriously if a credible overall policy is to be drawn up in this area . 
It should be recognised that it gives us tremendous opportunities for tackling pollution and reducing resource depletion and gives us opportunities in the food sector to improve the output from our agricultural industries . 
I will say this : Mr Purvis is right about one thing . Biotechnological applications will develop rapidly in the next few years . 
We could imitate it . It would transform our energy industry completely . 
We are told that we can reduce the number of pesticides used in farming . 
I should prefer to focus on the possibility of using biotechnology to design new pesticides and chemicals which work where they have to work and are broken down when they have to be broken down . 
It is supposed to heal diseases , solve the problem of world hunger and create better people . 
I would like to make just two points . 
It is preparing a strategic communication on biotechnology to be completed by the end of 2001 . 
I would like to thank Mr Purvis sincerely . 
They must be allowed to change to green . 
We shall look into this . 
We will be voting , this afternoon , on a motion for a resolution condemning a political group now active in Angola for having taken eight Portuguese citizens hostage . 
We must make full use of Europe &apos;s older workers , increase gender equality across the labour market , and encourage women to become entrepreneurs . 
We have set ourselves the year 2005 as a target date for an integrated internal market in financial services . 
I would like to discuss three aspects . 
Both sides were involved in this process and both sides gained from it . 
We would feel more reassured if the resolution had clearly said which government , in its opinion , was holding up these authorisations in such a blameworthy fashion . 
I shall close by quoting from two small articles in Mr Purvis &apos; s report which deserve to be highlighted : 
We must press for these life - saving drugs to be made available as cheaply as possible . 
Solutions must be sought through discussion , as has happened meanwhile in Senegal , the Ivory Coast and Uganda , where five pharmaceutical companies are working with three governments on considerably cheaper drugs . 
The crisis will continue to prevail and become even worse if prevention efforts are not sustained . 
It will take some time before vaccines are developed and available . 
What must be done to get the Taliban to reconsider ? 
I would like to highlight these two points in our joint resolution . 
These commandments have been misinterpreted by the mullahs , an abuse that is unpardonable . 
We must arrange a meeting . 
He has been unwilling even to meet the representative of UNESCO , who travelled to Kandahar to see him . 
They would like to see Mugabe arrested as soon as he sets foot in a European state . 
They have been tortured in the past and their colleagues have been killed . 
We have passed our sell - by date : we were supposed to have been killed two weeks ago . &apos; 
We are supposed to have one standard for all . 
We are supposed to be not only a global economy but a one - world family . 
I would like to say to the last speaker that there was no champagne in Brussels . 
I am convinced that this House has the political will to carry this through . 
I can foresee two large obstacles which will stand in the way of finding solutions . 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Kenyan authorities , and in particular President Moi , for any assistance they can provide to ensure a positive outcome . 
We are acting on principle here and in order to achieve a result . 
It would be good if the EU would not only call for this but be the first to enforce it in its own ranks . 
Some progress was achieved during this second preparatory committee but many important questions remain to be settled . 
We were taken with the openness and determination he displayed in approaching our Parliament . 
I would remind the Commission of the wish Parliament expressed last year to grant Mongolia the necessary emergency aid . 
I will be much obliged to you . 
I am having a quick look in the direction of the Commissioner , since we are not really short of time . 
It will enable assistants to have an employment contract in the prescribed form , social security cover , which not all of them have , and occupational accident insurance . 
This issue has been raised over a very long period of time by our group and , as we have just been reminded , by other groups as well . 
It would be extremely important , for instance , to be able to check the information which is gathered . 
We would add however that whatever scheme is ultimately adopted , and by whatever means , it must have certain characteristics . 
You have given us some good news . 
We have taken the steps we were asked to take . 
I would like to make one final remark in this connection . 
We must ensure the transparency of the contracts , public recruitment procedures , the requirement for an effective system of social protection and the payment of tax in each of the Member States . 
We have been informed today , by Commissioner Liikanen , that the Commission is , at last , going to get the ball rolling on this dossier . 
You have pledged to do this . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 15 March . 
I would ask you to observe a minute &apos; s silence . 
I shall check this with Mr Imbeni . 
I would like to ask you why you , yourself , as representative of a parliament , avoid contact with parliamentarians when you visit Member States ? 
We must ensure that all investors have the opportunity to participate in the internal investment services market , safe in the knowledge that European legislation will provide the appropriate freedoms and , if required , adequate protection . 
It was supposed to have made it possible for a firm or a company complying with its own home rules to have a passport to trade anywhere across the European Union . 
We should have a country - of - origin approach underlying this directive . 
We have set a timetable : 2005 , and our fellow Members &apos; proposals , I believe , move in the right direction . 
I would ask that we all bear in mind that there are now more than 8 000 tested ingredients which people can use quite happily . 
It may turn out that a sales ban on cosmetics tested on animals outside the EU will lead to countermeasures in the WTO . 
The aim must be to impose a ban in the EU area on tests using animals and the marketing of products that have been tested on animals . 
We have given in too easily to pressure from the WTO . 
It will allow us to pretend that we are doing something to prevent animal cruelty , but while maintaining the same testing requirements not one fewer animal would suffer . 
We would have liked to see a complete ban on these fragrances , but unfortunately we did not get support within the Committee for that . 
We can accept experiments on animals for the development and testing of essential medicines . 
I do wonder , however , whether we should amend the directive at all , since existing legislation is clear and a further delay is undesirable and unacceptable . 
We have done it elsewhere , at great gain to human health . 
This strategy may be in danger of temporarily restricting product development in the cosmetics industry , but it will considerably increase the incentives for developing alternative testing methods that do not involve animal experiments . 
We must set realistic marketing and test end dates for each . 
We must require alternatives to be used as soon as they are validated . 
We must stop manufacturers and retailers claiming their products are not tested on animals when one or more of the ingredients have been so tested . 
It would be detrimental to the market and discriminatory , however , to label all the cosmetic fragrances listed in Annex 2 for this reason . 
It has raised , and is raising , a great deal of concern among the public as many of you have mentioned here today . 
The issue is linked to many policy areas , all of which have to be taken into account including public health , consumer protection as well as the need for us to comply with our international obligations . 
I have requested that this measure &apos;s provisions on marking be extended to include all plastics as well , so as to avoid any ecomarketing . 
Cadmium is being phased out . In this respect , the Green Paper is in fact outdated . 
Some people are trying to make out that this material is public enemy number one . 
The problem is set to get worse , as waste quantities will increase significantly over the next decades . 
It is processed in many products because PVC is cheap , strong and is also durable . 
Industry has had decades to develop a strategy of self - regulation here . 
The rapporteur has worked very hard to bring us together on this issue and I would commend the work he has done to the House . 
We should appropriate industry &apos;s findings and not randomly back or call for substitutes which we ourselves have not yet investigated , and about which we ourselves do not know the full facts . 
It must be supplemented by further initiatives . 
This communication will make clear that the most urgent obstacles to labour mobility and cross - border pension provisions can be overcome without secondary legislation , by enforcing the Treaty rules which are already in place . 
I shall be very happy to discuss those with you and how the communication should and could be implemented after its adoption by the Commission . 
I am looking forward to presenting it to you and hearing your detailed comments once that communication has been adopted . 
He would have liked the Commission to be somewhat more robust . 
One can make wonderful statements in the European Parliament , but actually doing it in situ is a mark of greater courage . 
We must start discussing this issue before 15 September . 
We are seeing trafficking in human beings , the genuine social exclusion of millions of illegal immigrants and the despair that this situation generates deserves closer attention . 
We must move from preparatory action to adopting a legal basis that will ensure our prominence in this field . 
I shall conclude by turning to the other institutions and stating my desire that we can work together and cooperate as closely as possible on this budgetary procedure . 
I would like to thank my fellow MEPs warmly for accepting this constraint and for not including all kinds of details in this report , however tempting that may be . 
I will ensure that future cooperation with your will be sound . 
The institutions must be ready to welcome the candidate countries . 
We will be drafting proposals to that effect this coming year . 
They will need to play an exemplary role . 
I would like to mention two areas which are important to me in that respect . 
We would urge the other institutions to develop plans in order to avoid the unbridled growth of the work for the translation services . 
I am speaking also on behalf of my colleague , Mr Wijkman , who is not here . 
We must do all we can to prevent the emergence of an information underclass . 
We must avoid a situation similar to last year where industry across Europe was brought to a standstill by a small group of people . 
I would like to make it very clear that not every issue that arises in Europe is an EU issue . 
I would like to ask , without making any bones about it , who the administration is there for ? 
We are talking about the Sixth Framework Programme on Research , which we want more money for . 
We shall return to this subject in connection with the discharge procedure for 2000 . 
We must utilise these appropriations . 
I would like to gain a clear picture of his plans . 
I suggest including this major development in the report at this late stage . 
We can do very little at European level to have large social programmes of the kind to which I think you were referring . 
We have had our discussions on the 2001 budget on that particular matter , and will certainly be looking to have these proposals applied within Parliament if possible . 
We would like to promote that , respecting the fact that each institution has the right to take its own decisions . 
I would ask the Council to give some indication as to what they will be proposing for a legal base for the early retirement scheme . 
What is needed is the joint comprehensive strategy that this report calls for , encompassing all aspects of enlargement both in the short term and in the longer term . 
We must advocate concrete measures in this area , as companies with less than 250 employees after all account for 60 % of GNP and 60 % of employment in Europe . 
We should be looking ahead . 
We have watched with interest the development of the budgetary process so far and we thank the two rapporteurs who have produced a good report along the right lines . 
We would look for a fresh initiative from the Commission on this . 
These countries have signed up to the acquis communautaire and we expect them to satisfy its requirements before they enter the Union . 
I would ask the Commission to renew its efforts to clarify the legal basis for some areas of action in the field of the environment . 
The vote will take place - and , if appropriate , Mr Colom i Naval &apos; s may be withdrawn - at 12 noon today . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work . 
The situation will have been sorted out by 2002 with the ratification of the own resources decision . 
I would like to address just three particular matters of concern . 
I will make no bones about it : my decision whether or not to vote for discharge will depend on what you say today . 
We must cooperate with all those forces that wish to make European cooperation more efficient and open . 
We must hope that the reforms will remedy this . 
I have drawn up a 10-point plan which is largely based on the spirit of the reforms but which goes further in some areas . 
We have received a lot of information this year . 
I have respected the framework agreement because it is currently in force . However , I think it should be revised . 
We have been provided with more information than ever before in the history of the discharge , and I should like to commend the Commission for that . 
We could sense quite clearly that the Commission wanted a timely discharge . 
We have endeavoured , with everybody &apos; s help , to draft a constructive report based on two lines of approach : the quantitative and the qualitative . 
It should stop resisting a true audit on itself and must publicise its financial interests on the Internet . 
I can be brief about the committees and agencies . 
They must ensure that the money of the European taxpayer is spent wisely . 
We would like to see that taken forward in a realistic and practical way . 
The time has come to re - examine entirely the use of chemicals that are known or suspected to be harmful . 
We are convinced that today &apos;s vote is , in the long run , good for the health and profitability of the European cosmetics industry , as well as the public it serves . 
The committee has devoted many hours of meetings to the discharge process , and above all it has held various hearings with the Commissioners responsible . 
I can assure you that we are already working on this . 
It would take a different approach in comparable cases today . 
We are improving the implementation of programmes of expenditure and we are building up the network of controls , and will not hesitate to impose financial sanctions . 
We shall ensure that this happens . 
We will postpone the discharge for the Economic and Social Committee , but I have a feeling that this will be granted soon . 
What will be important for this Parliament is the question as to what will ultimately be the financial correction which the Commission will apply to the countries which are involved in this . 
I shall make three comments on what has happened here this year . 
We are punishing those who are only partially responsible for what is happening to them . 
This case was approached extremely tentatively . 
It would have made things much easier for us - for both sides - if you had done so . 
I was given a great deal of support from within your group when I said that since the events of 1998/1999 , this annual discharge procedure has acquired a political character . 
I can recall a time when this Committee on Budgetary Control was just a subcommittee of the Committee on Budgets . 
I should like to mention the &apos; Fléchard case &apos; which has been at the centre of discussion this year . 
We have set up a special committee , we have sent out additional questionnaires to the Commission and we have invited five new and former Commissioners to a consultation in the committee . 
I shall use my one minute to congratulate Mrs van der Laan on her report and mention CEDEFOP , which is headquartered in Thessaloniki . 
I should point out yet again that as part of the budget discharge procedure , the Commission provides Parliament with a list of disciplinary proceedings which commenced or were concluded in a given year , together with their outcomes . 
We are acting with as much transparency as possible . 
Vehicles are cleaned and disinfected , adequate notice of movements of animals is given ; movements of susceptible animals into the holding of dispatch within the previous 30 days have not taken place . 
These points are designed to provide facilities for the resting , watering and feeding of live animals in transport ; however , they are also an opportunity for animals to be cross - contaminated by other animals . 
These restrictions are adapted as circumstances change . 
I have spoken to you before of some of these challenges . 
This outbreak will continue for some time and must , as the Commissioner said , be followed by a full inquiry . 
What would be the implications on the income of the farming families if we were to abandon this policy ? 
This message must be driven home . 
We must follow the lead of the United States and Australia , where such controls have been in place for years . 
We must consider whether we can not set up certain quarantine zones throughout Europe , so that animals can no longer contaminate each other at the so - called resting points which are being used at the moment . 
Farmers have been unable to deliver milk for some days in various countries . 
They must be given an extra milk quota , so that they are not suffering more damage than they already are . 
It is estimated that around 200 million livestock are moved around the EU every year . 
Prices have hit rock - bottom , and the monthly wages bill can no longer be covered from beef production . 
It must be ensured , in this context , that vaccinated animals and their products are commercially viable , in other words , that they can be marketed without any trade barriers . 
We must show unwavering solidarity in the light of this human tragedy . 
What will need to be done ? 
Farmers have fulfilled their role as a shield , with their herds being sacrificed in order to protect the community at large . 
The industry is destabilised and under threat . 
We must deal with it in an exceptional manner . 
He was talking about whole areas of Holland , France and Ireland where restrictions will be lifted . 
I would urge you not to falter with regard to the non - vaccination policy pursued by the Commission since the beginning of the 1990s . 
I would like to make three brief points . 
I would ask the Commissioner three questions . 
I would ask you , whose side are you actually on ? 
You must tell us what you think about vaccination . 
You must explain to us what the technical or scientific basis is for having animals slaughtered when they have already been vaccinated . 
I have read reports from virologists and vets who claim that , in this day and age , adopting a non - vaccination policy is much like sitting on a time bomb . 
We have suffered greatly from that . 
I should like to take this opportunity to express my sympathy to the farmers and the rural communities who are suffering as a result of this disease . 
I am thinking , in particular , of the tourist industry in Ireland , which is worth EUR 4 billion . 
I do get the idea , however , that you are not overly concerned . 
I would say firstly to Mrs Thyssen that I agree with her that the small- and medium - sized businesses and consumers will not adapt until the last moment . 
Work is being done on this issue and the European Central Bank has seen this as the best way to solve this problem . 
We are directing our assistance to areas with the largest concentration of people in need . 
It should be noted that the Commission , through ECHO , is by far the largest provider of humanitarian aid in this conflict . 
I shall pass on your proposal to Mrs de Palacio to see exactly to what extent a direct answer can be made to the proposals submitted . 
The issue was referred to us last summer and we have worked on this , whilst trying to be both ambitious and fair . 
It should be noted that the Schengen acquis does not stipulate the type of identity document required . 
I hope is now clear that there is no change about the possibility of using the current Swedish identity card to register in a hotel . 
I would like to go further than that , if I may . 
We must do all we can in the European Union to make sure that the future is very different indeed . 
They are committing more troops . They are making a greater effort . 
I have seen the press and broadcast reports to which the honourable Member draws attention . 
I have had the privilege - in another , more informal Nordic context - of addressing this serious problem with the Commissioner . 
The report will be sent by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to all the organisations in all our countries . 
We must work towards a situation where companies employ more than the obligatory number of people with disabilities , making things easier for companies by consistently reducing or abolishing both the contribution and tax burdens . 
I would like to conclude by saying again to Mrs Hermange that she has produced an excellent report but one that we must make sure that we put into practice . 
She has been exemplary in the way she has attended to her task as rapporteur . 
We must adopt a pro - active attitude , for all this can be prevented . 
The change must affect all areas of policy , moreover . 
I will vote against all these proposed amendments , and also protest vigorously about the fact that we are discussing this report in plenary this week even though the translation was only available on Monday . 
It could have expressed a lot more in the way of hopes for the future . 
It must mean that in the future we will be eating more vegetarian food and rather less meat , and so on . 
We are told that the Council will not accept EUR 83 million per year for six years , but EUR 63 million per year is what was being spent under the old programme . 
We must guarantee that this proposal , which will last for the next five years , is effective . 
I have said this before and I shall say it again : effective action by the European Union is the only way to win public support for the European project . 
We have got to close the gap between rhetoric and reality in Europe . 
We would have welcomed an immediate contradiction from you in front of the media ! 
We have seen how good he is with the ball , because the Europe of sport is also a Europe that we have to build together . 
Funding must have limits , and a basic principle of democracy is that there should not be any accumulation of power . 
We should do so at the start of the American Presidency in order to achieve a balanced , positive relationship . 
He is lamenting something which is the result of a policy that he himself helped to develop . 
I would like to thank Group Chairman , Mr Poettering , who voiced the concerns of the Group of the European People &apos;s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats . 
What was begun in Lisbon and announced in Nice was not continued in Stockholm . 
It is worrying that the Lisbon Process , which got off to a good start a year ago , is now being watered down . 
It has been said that the enlargement negotiations are progressing and are one of the most urgent priorities of the presidency . 
We must hold on to this , otherwise there will be no further progress . 
I would add that the Europe of the Member States is not sufficiently European . 
I would like to see measures specifically focused on those who are unemployed and which help them here and now . 
It must have been an extremely difficult situation to deal with . 
Responsibilities must be clearly outlined and we must make clear that we need decision - making mechanisms here which bring about results . 
A discussion has taken place here concerning whether or not the process represents progress , and criticism has been heard from the right that insufficient progress has been made . 
We have had Mr Putin , the next time we will get President Bush and , as a result , the other topics will , of course , be pushed into the background . 
I should like to ask the President of the Council the following . 
We are waiting for it to progress further , because unless it does , what is the point of defining this draft framework when we have already liberalised every sector ? 
Relations must be deepened and developed , and dialogue must be open . 
It must be honest and it must be critical , but we must naturally , on the basis of our size and our strength , carry out this dialogue with very , very great self - confidence . 
This change must make their accession as painless and successful as possible . 
I would like to end with one last point , which might appear minor but which I consider to be extremely important . 
We are witnessing serious under - performance by standards which Europe &apos;s socialist leaders have set themselves . 
We must deal with it on a practical and political basis , but with frankness and determination . 
This commitment was emphasised by the Cologne Council and Feira when it was stated that strategic decisions had to be taken by December 2000 . 
It should be noted that this component of public health has been treated as a separate commercial area and is currently controlled by multinationals , which undermines national and regional interests . 
They may go on ad infinitum about new services , technical aids etc . , but nowhere does it state that these will be provided free of charge or that the cost of purchasing them will be subsidised . 
We should work towards ensuring that by 2003 , which is the European Year for disabled persons , we have guaranteed that the majority of those barriers have been removed . 
We must be able to insist on the European negotiating principle of burden sharing in this sector too . 
We must do the job properly now ! 
I will attempt to respond to the parts concerning justice and home affairs , while my colleague Mrs Klingvall will reply to the questions concerning asylum and immigration . 
I would ask for this to be made a new focal point . 
We must change the way we work , so as to make the area of freedom , security and justice as visible to the citizen as it is politically significant . 
What has been established in the light of these words , &apos; freedom , security and justice &apos; , is a system of monitoring and control without parallel in world history . 
A system is being developed which suspends the crucial aspects of legal security . 
What is needed is a new boost and greater political will to be able to fulfil the agenda and the objectives that are set out for us . 
We are working patiently , step - by - step , so as to be able to realise the scoreboard that has been proposed with a view to implementing the conclusions of the Council &apos; s summit in Tampere . 
I would remind you that 40 of the 49 least developed countries are also included in the group of ACP countries . 
We must remember that these measures that I have just spoken about , which come into effect immediately , are only part of the result . 
It must be pointed out that the poorest and the least developed countries must be given special attention and , in the process , elimination of extreme poverty should be the primary goal . 
It might cost little to treat a sick person and even less to prevent the illness , but AIDS is continuing to spread because of a lack of political will and economic commitment . 
I am convinced that the EU and Mr Lamy are extremely well placed to achieve these . 
I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for its answer , which I think was good in many ways . 
I should like to ask if the Council has faced up to such a possibility and thought out any action . 
I should like to thank the President - in - Office for his response and would like to give him some information of which he may not be aware . 
It is expected that the second and third readings will be able to take place before the summer recess . 
It is expected that these changes will take a few months more . 
One might accuse him of wanting to join Mr Le Pen &apos; s party - after all , they are already in the same group . 
It was agreed that when this work has been carried out a new Intergovernmental Conference would be convened to discuss the status of the Charter , amongst other things . 
I should like to know whether you agree with this action by the Spanish government , which has sold a publicly owned company to a company from the United States ? 
I have tried to explain the legal reasons for the Council &apos; s action . 
I should like to ask the supplementary question of whether you consider that the violation of the human rights of women that the Saudi government systematically carries out deserves to be condemned . 
I would remind you of the observatory in Vienna which is one of the EU &apos; s tools for making sure that human rights are respected . 
History has shown the danger of such a development . 
This regulation was used to step up the pressure on the international community to sign the Montreal Convention in 1999 , as a result of which the new all - encompassing worldwide system for liability became an established fact . 
I would like to highlight six points this evening . 
I would ask you please to be disciplined this evening . 
This position is complicated by two factors . 
Those amendments were directed to the improvement of Regulation 2027/97 and to the consumer rights which should be asserted . 
It will be absolutely essential to avoid excessive bureaucracy in this . 
It has moved ahead , but rather too tentatively . 
We are debating noise in the vicinity of airports , we are in the process of banning night flights . 
I shall refer to some of them . 
We have included intermodal terminals in the text , so that , as a carrier , combined transport supports the railways and inland waterways and underlines their particular importance . 
I should like to thank everyone who was involved , my fellow members in Parliament , the Commission and the French Presidency of the Council for bringing it all to a successful conclusion . 
He has demonstrated that courage and has been successful as a result . 
I should like to thank the Vice - President and her officials for helping us to negotiate that compromise . 
It has taken several readings and a conciliation procedure , but all &apos; s well that ends well . 
I must admit that I am not completely happy with the 1.5 million tonnes minimum volume required for category A classification . 
I have heard a few people make some very valid comments already . 
You have been here for ages . Now you are free to go and do whatever you please . 
We have tried , as requested at the Tampere Summit , to complete this legislative procedure as quickly as possible . 
We shall have a conciliation procedure . 
The rapporteur has worked hard and I am therefore particularly sorry to say that my Liberal Group can not unfortunately support most of his amendments . 
She will know that all of these professions and their associated professions - accountants and auditors - will look at any possibility to help their clients . 
Those clients may be involved in all sorts of dodgy transactions . 
I have been seriously lobbied by the British banks about Amendment No 17 , which they do not like because it tries to prevent people they do not know from paying in huge amounts of cash . 
We must do everything we can to counter them . 
I should like to assure Members that these proceedings attract a lot of attention in institutions outside this Parliament which are engaged in fighting money laundering . 
The decision was made to move gradually to the coverage of all serious crime . 
I would like Members to keep that in mind . 
Some remarks were made earlier this evening to the effect that client identification might be unduly cumbersome and bureaucratic . 
It was decided to set up a judicial network in criminal matters back in 1998 . 
I would like to quote a few excerpts from a recent interview which was published recently in a Dutch magazine . 
We will present our proposals for consolidating the programmes along the lines indicated in Mrs Keßler &apos; s report by the end of 2001 . 
We are counting on constructive dialogue with , and the support of , the European Parliament to make this operation a success . 
I would like to point out however that , in connection with Amendment No 3 , we do not see an obstacle to future instruments being able to provide specific cooperation mechanisms . 
We will do everything within our power to ensure that this collaboration is put into practice . 
We will need far more of them than we are at present producing . 
I will come back to this in tomorrow &apos; s debate . 
I would like to express clearly , though , that the proposed measure is not aimed at replacing the animal meal at present banned in fodder . 
This question was examined and settled by my services , after the Council had engaged the Commission to do so in December and within the framework of the Nice Summit . 
I would like to clarify the issue of so - called protein deficits . 
Simulations have shown that , with the current price ratio between protein crops and cereals , this increase would only lead to a very small increase in cultivated areas . 
It is worrying that the Commission says it considers that it makes more economic sense to increase imports of soya meal . 
We have turned them into cannibals . 
We must remember that this practice of declaration is not in itself important for the security of feedingstuffs . 
This information should be available , not only to ensure transparency but also to assist in the traceability of products . 
We should focus on that and not lose the benefit of this important piece of legislation . 
We risk pursuing a particular point to a degree of accuracy that is unnecessary and thus cutting off one &apos;s nose to spite one &apos;s face . 
We will drive up the cost for all these other agreements to an extent that would simply be irresponsible . 
It would be a good thing , however , if that were to happen before the Council of Fisheries Ministers is held . Given the current circumstances , I do not believe it makes any sense . 
I would like investigations to take place to improve the security for Members of the European Parliament and their staff in the area around our building in Brussels . 
I would like him to hear my speech , but , in any case , I feel it necessary to inform you and all the Members that the comments made by Mr van Velzen about myself were unfounded . 
I would like to thank all the Members , my group Chairman and Mr Seguro for what they said , but I am sure that there will be no need next time . 
I would like to say to you Mr Imbeni , as Vice - President of the European Parliament that , despite all our political differences , you are also a distinguished colleague and Vice - President . 
We must be united , Mr Imbeni , when we are dealing with defending human rights . 
I would like to confirm that the Commission can not accept any of the seven amendments proposed . 
We can support the rapporteur &apos; s determination to pursue the development of the infrastructure needed by port installations at European level . 
It has become absolutely necessary to involve the legal professions in the operation against money laundering , otherwise the European system of preventing and combating dirty money will be ineffective . 
We had hoped that this new version would be pushed through in first reading . 
We must work together to tackle this challenge . 
I have read Mrs Sanders - ten Holte &apos;s report , which is rightly concerned that compensation should be provided in the unfortunate event - excuse me a moment while I touch wood - of a plane crash . 
The system is verging on insanity , and things will have to be put back on an even keel in the near future . 
I have voted against sections of the resolution which deal with general vaccination and supported amendments which allow protective emergency vaccination , at the request of Member States . 
I am doing this in recognition of their hard work . 
The EPLP has voted for the motion for a resolution on the Stockholm European Council . 
I can greet the Commission but I can not greet the Council whose absence I deplore when this resolution on human rights in China is primarily addressed to the Council . 
It will be an enormous leap forward when we no longer have to table resolutions on human rights abuses in China but we see very little progress being made and the catalogue of abuses continues to expand . 
It must show that it recognises the individual humanity of its citizens and will exercise the duty of good government by providing protection for all under the rule of law . 
It would be extremely positive if we could encourage all those powers in China which inject more consistency into the fabric . 
The time has come for action and deeds . 
We must convince the American public that its President is making an historic mistake . 
All nations must assume their responsibilities . 
We must reject any re - examination of the Kyoto commitments . We must ratify and apply the protocol even without the United States . 
I would like to remind you that we have a great many documents , such as the White Paper on Renewable Energies , and a great many directives which we have not fully applied and implemented . 
We have decided to do everything within our power to keep the Kyoto process on track . 
It has given no indication of the content of the recently announced re - examination of its policies on climate change or the date on which this information will be made public . 
We are going to make every effort to move the Protocol forward . 
We will ratify it and we will ensure that we are consistent . 
The vehicle was abandoned well within the eastern sovereign base areas . 
This resolution could have attacked those who have violated and betrayed the service of God . 
We must make it more difficult in this way . 
We are obliged to do this . 
The population must be freed from this . 
It has emerged that Mr Tsiakourmas was abducted on the sovereign territory of a British base in Dhekalia . 
We must disband the armed groups which have caused the death of at least 20 civilians in recent weeks and step up mine - clearance operations . 
We must condemn in the strongest possible terms any supply of illegal weapons . 
We must send an equally powerful message . 
We must employ all available means to stop the balkanisation of Somalia , and the Union can play an important role in this . 
It will be impossible to decrease this number to zero due to the special features of the sector , but at least we should try and decrease the number of accidents as much as possible . 
I would like to add a few personal comments . 
It would be better if that section read : " . . . except for those that have passed annual safety tests " . 
I can assure you , however , that the Commission will make the vocational and continuing training of workers in matters of safety one of the central issues in its forthcoming report . 
We do know that , a few months ago , the Commissioner for Competition , Mario Monti , made a number of statements in this connection . 
I was bound to use my landlord &apos;s solicitors . 
That dispute had taken him through five law firms , ruined his business and his family life , all about a debt that had actually been acknowledged in writing . 
This ruling will prepare the way for the adoption of further measures . 
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 5 April . 
We shall see what happens over the next two or three days and , in May , all of us in this House shall shoulder our responsibilities . 
I would repeat that this is an extremely important and serious matter which affects both this institution and the guarantee that every Member must be able to legitimately enjoy . 
This letter was drafted , I believe , directly after the meeting of the Conference of Presidents . 
I am saying to you in all sincerity that this only adds to my doubts . 
We have gone beyond the stage of a localised disaster and we are looking for ways to drain the huge amounts of water . 
I am saying this so that there can be no more insinuations here . 
I have said this to you in public and in private . 
We should get them into Parliament as quickly as possible . 
I would like to end by reminding Mr Manisco that the law is not a protocol formality . 
The conviction was upheld last week . 
We would have liked to have had the opportunity to discuss this matter with the Commission before it took the decision . 
We are trying to establish a balance using them and NGOs . 
I would like to thank the Commissioner for the statement he has just made . 
I should like to ask the Commission how this is done at the moment . 
We will gain political influence by the changes we are suggesting , but it is a matter of process and achievement . 
I would add other sorts of disabilities which , in a very poor environment , are often totally ignored . 
We are trying to keep the broad picture of all these diseases at the top of the agenda . 
I will develop this point in my forthcoming speeches . 
We are called upon only to decide whether an allegation and a trial on a matter of this kind attracts parliamentary immunity which ought not to be waived . 
We have established a self - evolving text which , I am sure , will be improved upon in the course of time . 
I should like to see it explained accordingly . 
I would like to illustrate certain problems with this Regulation by showing you a small object . 
Every document must be examined on its own merits , and a new examination must take place in response to each new enquiry from the public . 
I would like to reiterate the basic principles of that opinion , which are still valid today . 
We shall see how this works in practice . 
What are called &apos; sensitive documents &apos; do not even need to be shown in the registers . 
It would be in the greater interests of transparency if we were to defer the decision today and see how the Council and the Commission are to interpret the new rules . 
I would like to congratulate everyone who has worked on this report and been involved in this outcome . 
I would call upon everyone who has contributed to the decision to ensure that the words are given their intended meaning . 
We have achieved a compromise and made certain gains . 
Citizens will be able to monitor the Commission &apos; s activity in a completely new way . 
We have acquired a powerful tool . 
We must see how the new rules work . 
I do believe that we must be extremely careful that the small delegations do not feel excluded . 
The process has been considerably more transparent than the conciliation process and these compromise amendments were agreed on 25 April in the LIBE Committee . 
All governments have endeavoured to give minorities , especially the large Albanian minority , a share of social and political power . 
I would like to call upon all responsible politicians in Macedonia to summon up sufficient courage to implement the necessary reforms . 
I could say exactly that . However , perhaps I can highlight some slightly different points . 
Reason must make its entry on the Macedonian stage and that is why I believe it is the duty of all politicians to sweep aside any grounds for such actions , be they perceived or genuine . 
It may be that , had we adopted it earlier , we would have been able to avoid some of the consequences as well . 
You must admit that this is going too far . 
You may have a different view of democracy , but everyone can say what they feel needs to be said . 
I would point out that , until the Kosovo issue is resolved , it will be difficult to find a solution to the problem of Macedonia . 
A boycott was introduced , the effects of which Macedonia had to shoulder . 
An agreement will enable us to set up intensive relations in a very concrete manner . 
We are committed to continue this policy and hope very much that together we can ensure a secure and safe energy supply consistent with sustainable development and respect for the environment . 
I would say to the previous speaker that nuclear accidents were not the invention of Communism . Rather , accidents have also occurred in the United States and Japan . 
The repercussions could become apparent in seven million people over the next 50 to 70 years . 
I have tried to achieve a minimum consensus in my group . 
It has been said before , but I would once again like to make an urgent appeal to the Commission to free up more specific aid for Belarus . 
We are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are still in need and still require direct aid . 
We have tried to encourage the applicant States to submit concrete timetables for doing that . 
I have been asked what standards are applied . 
We must cooperate with the Member States on these issues and do all we can , because we share the same environment and are all exposed to risks if we live with unacceptable safety levels . 
It is concerned , then , with protection under criminal law and with Europol units having to receive the information and intelligence they need in order to perform their tasks . 
We are asking the national and European authorities not to shirk their responsibilities . 
I shall reply that we should have thought of this before . 
We must provide more and better information , especially in my country , Portugal , where surveys show disturbingly high percentages of people not understanding the euro . 
We have seen examples of the educational contribution made by Catholic priests , particularly in the regions : the contribution of the Church and of the local and regional press must be encouraged and supported . 
I should like , on the Commission &apos; s behalf , to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and to report that the Commission will be happy to include any addenda proposed by the European Parliament . 
I should like to remind you that the Commission has submitted various proposals since its communication in July 1998 . 
I should like to thank the European Parliament for its support ; it just goes to show that we are all working to make this project a huge success . 
The proposal is based upon a highly developed method of analysis applied by certain laboratories . 
They must be sent in a way that guarantees the greatest possible security so as to ensure that the transported samples are not misused . 
It must be emphasised that the initiative affects only the fight against the large - scale organised production of synthetic drugs , something that is prohibited throughout the EU . 
I can back up what I have just said with a few figures provided by Europol and the Drugs Monitoring Centre in Lisbon . 
It is estimated that some 8,000 tonnes of cannabis and derivatives , 350 tonnes of cocaine , 60 tonnes of heroin and at least 50 million ecstasy tablets reach the European market every year . 
I would like to say at the outset - and I am sure that the Chairman of the Committee will say the same - how much we regret the absence of Dagmar Roth - Behrendt tonight . 
I would like to say briefly why I and my group now believe that it would be for the better passage of this directive if it goes through unamended . 
It has been very hard to have a reasonable rational debate on the impact of an outbreak of BSE , be it 3 , 4 or several hundred cases at a time . 
I should like us calmly and quietly to show a bit of humility in the face of the food disasters which have hit us . 
Measures are needed and are no luxury . Let there be no mistake about this . 
I have seen how some of the farmers in the region where I live , who had 25 or 30 cows , have very little money left on which to live . 
Tattoos can cause problems , they can become difficult to read or they can be altered . 
The change is explained in terms of the fact that the Regulation is aimed at protecting public health . 
We must remember that it is , in particular , children and young people who have ferrets as pets . 
I must confess a conflict of interest at the start . 
We must bear in mind that more modern advanced microchips are being designed with authentication programmes which will be even harder to change fraudulently . 
I will begin with the amendments the Commission can not accept . 
I was asked by one Member earlier if we have we enough legal base or enough information to prevent other diseases in animals . 
This amendment would delete " ferret " from the list of species which may be moved inside the Community with no veterinary conditions . 
The issue was brought to a head at the end of 1999 with the expiry of a transitional period for fixing MRLs for established drugs . 
This review will provide a timed framework to further address the availability problem for all animal species concerned in a global manner . 
We must remember what this Stability and Growth Pact calls for . 
We must face up to these risks . 
We can support it , as it now stands . 
I would like to end by highlighting the need to maintain this coordination and the agreements established in the stability programmes . 
We would like to wish you a happy birthday in advance , and trust these problems will have been resolved by then . 
The reasons include rising oil prices and higher interest rates , which are already dampening company profits . 
It has damaged the EU and EMU - not just in Ireland , as has been pointed out previously . 
It has put additional wind into the sails of the opponents of EMU in the countries outside the euro zone . 
We must continue to strive to reduce the present deficits and to balance public budgets at the earliest opportunity . 
They were forwarded to Parliament on 25 April . 
They are becoming more and more important as our personal data are so easily and quickly circulated . 
I should like to pick up on a few points addressed by Malcolm Harbour . 
I would urge the Commissioner to show more ambition in this area . 
We will need to make sure that we have the regulatory mechanisms right and deal properly with the risks and threats as well as getting the technological fixes done correctly . 
We must ensure that the outlying places are brought into this . 
I would point out to the Commissioner that his time allocation runs until 11.00 a.m. 
This involvement was concluded by the recently proposed regulation on International Accounting Standards ( IAS ) , which I hope to discuss with this Parliament shortly . 
I would like to ask you , Mr President , who authorised the use of the room for these purposes . 
What is happening is that the United States has decided to refuse entry to a democratically - elected Member of this Parliament for political reasons . 
I would like to propose an oral amendment whereby the word &apos; ferret &apos; is moved from Part B in Annex 1 to Part A. 
I am attempting for the third time to point out that the wording of Amendment No 4 is different in the final version to that in the version adopted by the committee . 
The action taken was scientifically based and I believe we are close to bringing this public health scare to a successful - and with strict adherence to production controls to a permanent - conclusion . 
We may adopt this proposal , but we are still a long way away from disclosure as it is known in the Netherlands and Scandinavia . 
We are facing a quite exceptional and hazardous operation , which involves both replacing all coins and notes and at the same time changing all the points of reference . 
People are going to suffer a tremendous shock , but I am not worried about the final outcome . 
The euro will be in open competition with the dollar for the title of the world &apos; s most counterfeited currency , unless we all make concerted efforts to ensure that the counterfeiters are defeated . 
It avoids explaining why , despite the increase in the rate of growth and the huge reduction in the cost of labour , there has been no concomitant reduction in unemployment which , it agrees , is extremely high . 
We shall be voting against the Katiforis report , every point of which we disapprove of . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 May 2001 . 
I would ask him to apply his energy and his speaking skills , if he has any , to convincing his friends to stop their murdering . 
You can count on me to do that . 
I would like to know whether you have received it , in the terms that I have mentioned , and how you are going to proceed . 
I should like to thank all my fellow Members for voting in favour of this resolution . 
I should like to mention the rapid decision - making . 
We have discussed it on a number of occasions . 
We should have preferred to have seen these products banned simultaneously in the EU and for export , but at least a ban has been set for the year 2007 . 
We have had a discussion concerning what I will call export hypocrisy in this matter . 
It will transform the way in which cigarettes are sold in Scotland , the UK and the whole of the European Union . 
I should like to mention the setting of a reduced tar ceiling in cigarettes and the creation for the first time of a ceiling for nicotine and carbon monoxide . 
I have been particularly upset at the cynical efforts of the tobacco industry to use the spectre of job losses to threaten this measure . 
I can inform you today that work is already under way to reconstitute the Commission &apos;s Advisory Committee on Cancer Prevention and to create its working group on tobacco . 
We have succeeded in getting the most important issues of principle through , for example , that the user stage , that is , those who feed the animals , is also to be covered by the controls . 
They have arisen in natural processes which really should not have taken place . 
I have reintroduced all the amendments to the effect that &apos; contaminated &apos; should be replaced by &apos; contain dangerous substances &apos; . 
We should endeavour to create legislation that is clear , consistent and easy to grasp . 
The report was accepted unanimously by the Committee on the Environment Public Health and Consumer Policy . 
We are gathered here with a reasonable unanimity in the committee , with a very modest number of amendments but with an absolute certainty that we want to press our point . 
I am putting the position of my group in the absence of Mrs Roth - Behrendt who , as some will know , is in hospital in Berlin . 
People were asking whether veterinary inspections were secure and safe and could possible be self - policed . 
I would ask you to give Mrs Roth - Behrendt our best wishes for a speedy recovery . 
We have learned an expensive lesson but one that marked an important turning - point in EU food production and one from which we can benefit in the long term . 
Colleagues may recall this report came before Parliament at a particularly sensitive time for the Commission . 
I have looked at ways in which we can reduce the administrative costs of implementing this recommendation . 
I have clarified , I hope , the follow - up action that is expected of the Commission and removed an unnecessary and potentially harmful qualification in the common position . 
We should look at whether they can be made more efficient and possibly expanded , so that more young people can go and study abroad . 
We must continue to dismantle all barriers to freedom of movement . 
I would say : let us be realistic , rather than too idealistic . 
I would say , however , that it is not just the Commission that can do things . 
I would like , as far as is possible , to illustrate the importance of this subject with an example . 
We can give examples , we can make a synopsis of how things look in one country or another . Perhaps the Member States can learn from each other . 
I should like to remind you , ladies and gentlemen , that we can not always confine ourselves to fine words , making grand final communiques and calling on the Commission to act . 
I shall limit myself to the recommendations contained in my written opinion . 
I would state once again that an initiative as important as this justifies the creation of a specific programme with its own legal basis . 
We must tread new paths here . 
I should like to remind you all of the dreadful Conciliation Committee marathon over the little bit extra we wanted for Socrates . 
We have heard , as Mr Costa Neves has said , that Parliament , represented by the Committee on Budgets , is pressing for this not to be at the expense of any existing programme . 
I would argue that for universal access to mobility we need to have universal access to language teaching and learning . 
I have made that observation on more than one occasion . 
I shall follow the plan of action closely myself and I insist that we are given regular thorough reports and analyses . 
You should go and see what a shambles they have become , and you are bound to wonder for how long they were actively in use . 
It is said that in Flanders there is a computer for one pupil in every ten . 
We must make sure that in two years &apos; time we are not talking about what we wanted to do but were not allowed to . 
Those who are doing nothing about it are beginning to have a guilty conscience . 
We must continue to nurture that guilty conscience . 
Some Members have mentioned subsidiarity . 
I should like to respond to the three fundamental messages not only expressed by the rapporteurs but also discussed by the Members of this House . 
We have discussed this issue a great deal in recent weeks . 
We are faced with a new world , and there are not many of us who realise what that means . 
We are travelling together in the right direction . We are taking giant steps forward , much more rapidly than anyone could have imagined two or three years ago . 
It may be a plot by the PPE - DE Group to win the next vote , but something has gone wrong . 
It will take a bit more than that to convince people . This point is emphasised in the opinion which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted by a large majority . 
We have seen a recurrence of monetary crisis in the developed countries , such as Argentina and Turkey . 
We have seen the technological bubble in the new economy burst in the United States . 
Those reforms should make Europe more innovation - friendly . 
I have taken note of the consideration given here to the importance of economic stature , which should be taken into consideration when considering sanctions against a Member State . 
We must include every factor in the broad guidelines . 
I will comment briefly on these issues . 
We are operating in several categories ; after all , we have ten different waste streams , each with its own distinct recycling target . 
We must concentrate it in order to reduce the cost of recycling . 
We are proposing that end users should be able to surrender their old equipment absolutely free of charge . However , it need not automatically go back to the place of purchase . 
I do believe , however , that it is right to make provision for individual financing in the case of new equipment . 
You may call me old - fashioned , but I believe there is a certain educational aspect in all of this . 
We have heard a host of interesting proposals on this subject . 
It is estimated that this waste stream , which constitutes 4 % of municipal waste today , will increase by at least 3 - 5 % every year . 
We have had some debate about collective and individual systems , which the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy has gone into in detail . 
I would ask the Commission to take this very much on board . 
I would like to mention the Member States &apos; obligation to achieve a recovery rate of six kilos per inhabitant , since I believe we should take account of the existing differences between the Member States . 
I would like to repeat that it is appropriate to apply an implementation co - efficient to the recovery obligation in order thereby to balance and harmonise the obligation , depending on the Member State in question . 
The cost must be a part of the product &apos; s overall cost and price . 
The rapporteur has made efforts to try at an early stage to get the various political groups to compromise on quite a few important areas . 
We are asking consumers to behave in a responsible manner , and that is why they need to receive backing . 
I have tabled an amendment concerning re - use , which I think is an excellent idea , except if there are new products which , on environmental balance , score more points . 
I would like to end by asking the Commissioner a question . 
We want recycling to be conducted in a truly systematic manner and on a scale which ultimately makes sound economic and budgetary sense . 
Producers can do a great deal , such as providing sustainable products and ensuring that appliances can easily be repaired , for example within the space of half an hour . 
We must pull out all the stops , where possible , to develop and use environmentally - friendly alternatives . 
We must apply the polluter - pays principle correctly . 
Cars are taken to the scrap - yard . 
This legislation will create waste and material streams that have never existed before . 
We have heard them before , but I repeat that this is the fastest growing part of the waste stream - indeed , it is growing three times faster than other waste streams . 
The review should cover all potential hazardous substances . 
These products are marketed throughout the European Union , and that is why it is necessary to have a high level of protection in the whole of the EU . 
We must emphasise once again that the European Parliament deserves credit for ensuring that the OSPAR strategy will be integrated into the water framework directive . 
I would submit that the decisions under that Directive ought to be completed under its agreed timetable before an informed decision can be taken under these new proposals . 
I would like to make a final comment , which is to stress the extraordinarily far - reaching importance of the texts submitted for vote by Parliament . 
We can spend the money more fruitfully elsewhere for the benefit of the environment . 
It has taken some time to get it to the plenary session . Mrs Breyer has been persistent , though , and she has worked very hard on it . 
We do have to consider this list very carefully before action , but that is not an excuse for no action or slow action . 
It would be preferable to await the outcome of an extensive study into nickel in water , currently being carried out in Denmark . 
I should like to make some observations with regard to three substances . 
Money must be targeted where it will have the most beneficial environmental impact . 
It would be a waste of resources to have to replace or reline all these water - pipes on the basis of this priority list when the resources could be better deployed in areas of real concern . 
We will ensure that all language versions are brought into line with the English version . 
It must be clear to consumers that they are intentionally exposing themselves to a health risk . 
It must be clear to consumers that they are intentionally exposing themselves to a health risk . 
I am saying this because , apart from anything else , many politicians and ministers in Europe have their pockets full of lead : so much so that they are unable to stand up from their chairs ! 
He was exhausted and covered in sweat . 
The directive must give Member States a choice of the means to implement in order to finance recycling of these appliances . 
I regret having had to spend many Easter and Christmas breaks retyping all the electronic files which I had accidentally deleted by pressing the wrong key . 
Alcohol does create problems , and sometimes they can be harrowing . 
We must stop the deliberate targeting of alcohol products at young people . 
We must have effective labelling and advertising of the dangers of alcohol , but also readily available information for young people , parents and all those involved in youth work to promote healthy living . 
We must inform , warn , monitor , anticipate and prevent a human and social disaster . 
We should ban advertising of alcohol , however implicit . 
We should ban sponsorship of all activities , particularly sporting activities , by manufacturers of alcoholic drinks . 
We must realise that peer pressure is a problem , lack of self - esteem , parents drinking : those are all problems we should take into account . 
The WHO is supporting measures in this field , the NSPCC is and I certainly hope my colleagues will vote for it . 
I have been very pleased to learn that in the Council working group and in COREPER the Member States have welcomed this initiative very positively . 
It has been mentioned in the contributions this afternoon that we dealt with this yesterday in the directive that we discussed , and that is dealt with on an EU - wide basis . 
Some amendments can be partially accepted by the Commission . 
The proposal is intended to guarantee the safety of marketed products and promote compliance with the obligations of producers and distributors . 
This revision has followed a method which we believe to be adequate , including the consultation which took place before making the proposal with non - governmental organisations and social agents , companies and so on . 
I am talking about our attitude to the ethics of exporting products , which Europeans consider to be unsafe , to other countries . 
We have seen the effects of BSE . 
You have provided for a reduction from 2 to 1.8 livestock units . 
It will result in more bureaucracy and it will not provide any relief whatsoever in connection with the consumption of beef , which is after all what we need just now . 
We can do this very easily for the costs associated with the intervention buy - up . 
I would remind this Parliament of the foot and mouth resolution which it adopted in April and which urged that healthy animals should not be destroyed . 
It would be more sensible to buy these animals in order to destroy the meat . 
We are insisting once again on applying the &apos; one size fits all &apos; approach , as if all farms had the same capacity to adapt and to survive . 
The rules were laid down in Berlin . 
We are calling for the reintroduction of a limit of 90 head of cattle . 
These measures are designed to ensure , in particular , four things . 
These indicators will develop naturally from the long - term objectives and targets the Commission is proposing in its strategy paper for Gothenburg . 
Sacrifices may be needed initially but major benefits will be reaped in the long term . 
We must bear in mind that we can not allow our heritage to be destroyed , our cities to be destroyed , the environment to be destroyed , without calculating the consequences for man . 
A lot can be achieved but clearly it has to be done step by step . 
I can assure you that the environmental chapter is one of the four most problematic chapters . 
We are working very actively on this , but the economic scale of the issue is enormous and the cost can certainly not be borne by the European Union alone . 
It should be done electronically , so that those who ask to speak can be sure they will be noted in the right order . 
I should like to ask you , firstly , how does the European Commission assess this policy ? 
We must support education , in particular , together with the rights - based approach you talked about . 
We are trying to deal with poverty , insufficient education and training , insufficient institutional capacity to apply national laws even where they exist . 
They had received about EUR 5 million under MEDA by the end of 1999 . 
We have followed developments in this sensitive field with considerable attention . 
I have pointed out that economic growth helps to improve the context and you draw the conclusion that it does not necessarily reduce the differences . 
I shall be very brief . 
What would happen if , instead of one country , there were two , three or four small countries ? 
An agreement was reached in Vienna at the end of 1998 , on the basis for a Commission proposal which , however , the Member States did not take up . 
I will be quite frank with you here . 
I would like to ask you whether , when considering these issues , you have examined the serious affects of langoustine fishing on young hake . 
I have been told that talks were held with the Commission with a view to studying measures to restructure the Spanish fishing fleet in Moroccan waters . 
I should like to make it clear that , as far as the legislation is concerned , it sets out the minimum standards with which companies must comply . 
I am asking her for an assurance that Parliament &apos;s call for a legal base for monitoring European companies &apos; actions in third countries will be included as one of the options in the Green Paper . 
I would ask the Commissioner whether she is prepared to give her support to this proposal . 
I should point out that of the 52 factory ships that existed in 1990 , only 14 are still operational . 
We should evaluate what we are buying , consider the cost of catching it and consider whether the game is worth the candle . 
We are dealing with fish . 
We should buy the fish and ensure we are getting good value . 
We must ensure that we do not exploit those countries and do not allow our fleets to damage or exploit their fishing stocks . 
This review will take place by 30 June 2003 at the latest . 
I would like to emphasise that the Commission supports the rationale behind most of the proposed amendments , and will cooperate constructively with Parliament on these issues . 
I would like to add here that the Commission constantly encourages Member States to utilise their fishing rights to the greatest extent possible and also always makes a point of reminding Member States of the possibilities of quota exchange . 
I shall finish by saying that , in any event , it appears essential to monitor the real impact of implementing this agreement . 
I would have wished the Council to adopt the Commission &apos;s proposal to stick with the original three - year transitional period . 
It would be regrettable if this proposal were used primarily to attempt to bring round all the developing countries to the European position at the WTO . 
The time has come , therefore , to listen ... 
We are taking a step in the right direction and we are endeavouring to make our actions match our words . 
It would be good if the Council would make a bit of an effort , as our colleague Mr Jarzembowski said earlier . 
We must be able to find a solution here . 
I would want things to move faster , and that should be possible . 
I would point out that 70 - 75 % of accidents are caused by the human factor . 
All players involved must bear their recoverable share of the responsibility . 
I must remind you , however , that on all the other subjects we have reached an agreement . 
This difficulty has led to all kinds of practices in which non - EU drivers work for Community businesses illegally and under social conditions which are considerably worse than those enjoyed by their EU colleagues . 
We should make sure that we are not always lagging behind . 
Everybody is entitled to their democratic point of view , but certainly it was intimidatory to both Members and guests , hundreds of whom were trying to get into to Parliament at the same time . 
I shall check what has happened at once . 
I should like to join wholeheartedly with Mr Corbett in asking for immediate action to be taken . 
I should like to state clearly here that the origin of his fortune is surrounded by a lack of clarity . 
We have witnessed a number of personal attacks on the leader of a political grouping , attacks based on information given in newspaper articles , none of which has been proved to be true . 
I would appeal to the key parties involved to strive in good faith to end the violence in the Middle East and to put in place a negotiated settlement , based on the principles of existing agreements . 
We should take a more objective view . 
Peace will come if , and only when , Israel , Palestine and the neighbouring states realise they want peace so much that they are prepared to live it . 
We have brought this up several times with the Israeli government . 
We will address the Israeli government and demand that it stop the violence , cease to close off Palestinian areas and immediately halt its settlement policy which is illegal and constitutes illegal occupation . 
I am determined , as I said earlier , to conduct this issue by the Agreement and entirely according to the law . 
I had been greatly encouraged by the new Administration &apos;s commitment to maintaining America &apos;s vital role in world affairs . 
The time has come for Europe to shoulder its fair share of the security burden . 
It would be fair to say that over the years the machinery of cooperation has grown rather more complex than we intended . 
I would like to quote from a Commission document about how to avoid or minimise new trade disputes . 
We should take up this offer by the US Administration . 
We must fight together for greater environmental protection and greater safety . 
I should like to inform you that I have received six motions for resolutions under Rule 37 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure . 
I would appreciate a statement from the Commissioner on that particular point . 
We have expressed our views on this before . 
We shall be voting in favour of this resolution , but we feel that , in addition to declaring politically correct intentions , we must take action . 
We have seen all too many accidents in the last couple of years . 
The legislation must be applied by all the Member States , including Belgium , Portugal , France , Ireland and the Netherlands . 
We must remember that young people are the main victims of the murderous road accidents caused by alcohol abuse . 
I would add , however , that the protection of children and adolescents against certain abuses must be absolute . 
I have voted against the Sturdy proposal . 
Problems are moved to new areas or are not addressed at all . 
It would be better to provide food aid whenever this can be done without destabilising the beneficiary countries &apos; markets . 
We should let every State catch its own fish ! 
We must call on Turkey today to ensure that the new regulation is implemented as quickly as possible , so that the conditions of detention in the prisons actually improve . 
I should like to stress that the Commission attaches great importance to further judicial and penal reform . 
Those who have taken it upon themselves to represent the interests of detainees should prove first and foremost that they no longer intend to risk the lives or welfare of the detainees . 
You would think that a government with so many problems would at least try to resolve the most pressing and urgent problems . 
All prisoners must be treated equally . 
Anyone protesting is imprisoned and as a non - Muslim treated badly in the prisons . 
I shall say no more . 
It would be possible to induce certain people to stop what they are doing if Turkey showed willing on the three points listed by Daniel Cohn - Bendit . 
I should like to point out that when my press officer wanted to step into the Chamber , he was stopped straight away . 
I should like to know what that will do for the European Parliament &apos;s reputation . 
The matter will be reported to the President , and the appropriate authorities will be asked to take action . 
We must ensure that we make the most of this chance . 
We have called on them time and again not to underestimate the simmering ethnic conflict and to do everything to prevent such conflict from breaking out . 
We could have told them . 
We shall try to take a delegation to Skopje before the summer . 
Nothing would please the KLA more than to parade the Albanian parties and dictate their demands and nothing would please the KLA more than overreaction on the part of the Slav - Macedonian parties . 
What was done in Zagreb was a good thing . 
We will adjourn the sitting for five minutes as neither the rapporteur nor the speakers who need to take the floor on this item are present . 
This item must be put on the agenda as soon as possible and as spokesman of the liberal group I should also like to warmly support what Mr Poettering has said . 
We must discuss this matter again as soon as possible and then adopt a motion . 
We would be creating a monster . 
I should like to say three things . 
I can refer to a long list of pronouncements by the EC Court of Justice , clearly showing that we really are concerned with a Treaty change here . 
I would like to congratulate Mrs Figueiredo on the excellent work she has done , which is both helpful and useful . 
It can accept parts of Amendments Nos 7 and 14 . 
I should like to mention four . 
We must remember that these generations deserve the same sort of pension security and safety and sustainability as that which we are talking about for ourselves . 
He has managed to find the common ground , giving us a report which , it seems , Parliament will adopt by a large majority . 
We must reverse the trend whereby these widows &apos; pensions are being whittled away . 
We must ensure that capital formation and old - age pensions complement rather than contradict each other . 
Capitalisation must have clearly - defined borders and must be part of the solution , not part of the problem . 
This study will analyse all the problems Member State by Member State and will table proposals on basic principles for sustainable systems . 
We are trying to assess how things have worked in practice , and we believe we can say without hesitation that the position of the Ecofin Council has been respected . 
Others have been arrested and many have escaped inland to try to find the work that did not exist in their own countries . 
This promise was given to the Swedish people ahead of EU membership . 
We have been living the whole time with what is known as the loyalty principle , as described in Article 10 of the EC Treaty . 
I have listened to the reply by the President of the Council to the problem that was well illustrated by Mr Marinos : the relationship between Turkey and the Greek Cypriots and the Kurds . 
I would say a special thank - you to Mr Sacrédeus himself for his work on the important position adopted by Parliament in July of last year on this subject . 
I can assure the honourable Member that I have in any case signed the answer . 
We must reject this proposal . 
I should like to cite two examples here . 
They were expressed at every Council meeting between 1995 and 1998 . 
I should like to comment on all four . 
I would have expected him to be closer to us , now that we know that the Greens have tabled a proposed amendment rejecting this supplementary and amending budget . 
We shall wield our power as budgetary authority on every future demand in order to stop this sort of blunder . 
We shall have to check that the Union &apos;s revenue is going to be used efficiently and for its intended purpose within the framework of our budgetary law , the financial regulation and the commitments entered into . 
I would add that the ad hoc procedure has proven to be an increasingly constructive procedure between the institutions over recent years . 
I should like to remind you of this resolution . 
I must say that it did provide us with the information we needed . 
It would be useful to have the precise figures as soon as possible . 
We could show a bit more intelligence here . 
I can tell you now that the PPE group will be looking at this issue very closely in the autumn , once we have the actual figures to work with . 
You may be aware of the findings of a recent Euro poll , which showed that the European Parliament is one of the most recognised of all EU institutions . 
We could need about 459 new offices in Brussels alone . 
It can count on a totally constructive attitude towards this accession being achieved as soon as possible . 
I am convinced that by the end of the Swedish Presidency we will provisionally close negotiations on more than half the chapters . 
I am convinced that the current - and the most difficult - phase of the reform will soon bring its positive effects . 
The amendment has put in place the legal prerequisites for the integration of Slovakia . 
I am speaking to you as a European to Europeans , facing a unique challenge and immense responsibility . 
I can tell you that we in the European Parliament have always been convinced of this . 
I can assure you that we take such incidents quite as seriously as they deserve . 
We will see if that is possible tomorrow morning . I am joking . 
I should like to request that the Minutes be aligned with the German language version . 
I should like this to be recorded in the Minutes once again . 
I did say it yesterday to your representative . 
We are going to look into it , together with the Quaestors , to prevent this happening again and ensure that security checks are in place . 
You will understand that , as rapporteur , I can not support the proposal &apos;s rejection because , after all , it is Parliament itself which has been calling for a regulation for a long time . 
I should like to address one more point : the Council was present yesterday , and I received the speech of the President - in - Office on behalf of the Council Presidency . 
It should be the other way round . 
We should examine these aspects further . 
We can come back to this during the amendment procedure , which will take place in due course , and then we will be able to put the finishing touches to the system . 
I should like to ask Messrs Poettering and Barón Crespo to reconsider their words . 
I would come back , however , to questions of principle , which I believe we should examine thoroughly . 
We should like to know how Article 308 is to be implemented . 
I would like to hear from you , ladies and gentlemen , what a &apos; lasting &apos; party means . 
You have invented a new tax for the citizens , which forces them to finance your bureaucracies . 
I can assure him that we are behaving like democrats . 
We should sort this out now and address the other outstanding issues more seriously and more successfully once the Treaty of Nice comes into force . 
We must demand transparency , and we must demand that the existing European parties scrupulously observe rules and laws instead of cheating their way around them . 
It will be difficult to face the electorate at the next parliamentary election . 
We shall take steps to bring the matter before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg , and I can promise that there will be a political storm over the abuse of power of which this Regulation is an expression . 
The provisions being introduced here have been national law and have applied to the national parties in all the Member States for a long time , despite varying rules . 
I should like to express my thanks for this , in a personal capacity and on behalf of Parliament , but especially on behalf of the people who live in the European Union . 
We shall bring about practical results . 
Who can access and use it ? 
She has proposed that Luxembourg should be the seat . 
I would imagine that we will be able to discuss the quite specific problem which is the subject of this amendment with the Council at a later stage . 
It would be like saying that , in Italy , for instance , the Südtiroler Volkspartei or the Union Valdôtaine should not have access to public funds . 
It might distort elections in the future too , and for that reason a limit must be found to the use of money in elections . 
They will be deprived of financing . They will be prosecuted . 
They will be dragged before the courts . 
This alienation will increase even more when European parties with even looser ties to their voters are set up . 
I have voted against the report for the following reasons : Article 308 of the Treaty does not provide the legal basis for giving the European Parliament the right to deal with the matter at this time . 
I would call on the Greens , the Liberals and the Christian - Democrats to support this standard . 
It must be the case that at all points people involved in criminal processes achieve the highest level of respect for their rights of defence . 
The rapporteur has managed to duck the issue in 31 convoluted paragraphs . 
You are sowing an anti - grass roots storm and you will reap a grass - roots hurricane . 
We have taken a portion of the power from those in power . &apos; 
We might regard this as gesture politics , but he wanted to show that St Augustine &apos;s origins lie in what is now Algeria . 
It was razed to the ground in 1993 , its foundations were torn up , and a car park was built on the site . 
This mosque was destroyed - like hundreds of other Muslim and Catholic places of worship - on the orders of Karadzic and his henchmen . 
We have addressed a number of other issues in our motion as well . 
He has issued a statement condemning the violence and demanding that the Republika Srpska authorities find those responsible and make sure they face justice . 
We will continue our efforts to promote the reconstruction of the country and support the many citizens who yearn to live a life in peace . 
The assistance is provided as part of a coherent macroeconomic package which was agreed by the authorities in the region and is supported by the international financial institutions . 
I should like to ask whether this really is true , and whether all 15 of our Member States can shake hands on it before all the conditions which you have described are fulfilled . 
I must ask you to address your question to the committee which coordinates the position of the 15 Member States in the Council of Europe . 
I would be very happy to assist you , of course . 
We must call on Cameroon to respect this convention and find ways of excluding this country and any other country which violates the conventions which it has signed . 
We would ask the People &apos; s Party to consider urgently whether it would like to defend press freedom or the concentration of power . 
It will make for an interesting outcome of the vote . 
It has made declarations proposing the process and - where necessary - voicing its concerns . 
The government has set up a committee of inquiry , the findings of which will be carefully analysed by the Commission and the Member States . 
Children are being shipped off to work on plantations . 
Children are being abducted to be trained as soldiers , to carry weapons , to become a killing machine or to provide sexual services . 
The services are trying to bring the debate on the Di Lello Finuoli report forward to 5.10 p.m. , as suggested earlier . 
We have seen how far rapid reaction facilities are lacking . 
We are bound to express our sorrow when confronted with an urgent situation , with a crisis and with suffering . 
We must take both immediate and long - term action . 
We have given commitments over several years to eliminate this type of danger , to prevent this type of threat and to solve the awful problems that people face . 
Everything must be done in order to assist these people , who have suffered considerably . 
The course has been traced out ; now we need to find the will and the political strength to press on to the end , elevating the guarantee system to the highest possible level . 
I could quote many examples . 
I should like to add my voice to those of Ana Palacio Vallersundi and the speakers in general in their entirely justified praise for the work of the rapporteur , Mr Di Lello Finuoli . 
We must face the fact in our daily work that the devil is in the detail . 
I would like to ask you , Commissioner , if there are any plans to revise these two directives as well ? 
I would like to welcome the Marks & Spencer employees &apos; representatives , who are seated in the public gallery . 
We must adopt the directive on worker involvement in the European company and ensure that their representatives participate in supervisory committees and boards of directors where the decisions are taken . 
They are seated in the gallery and I should like to welcome them . 
I should like to comment on the specific questions asked . 
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament . 
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday , 17 May 2001 . 
I would ask you to observe a minute &apos; s silence . 
It is interpreting the existing requirements and how they will be used within the EU . 
These decisions will affect us all and will affect everybody outside this Parliament : people will not have the right to privacy , and this is an issue that should be raised right across the board . 
I should like to repeat the call . We need to debate this . 
