I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999, and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period.
You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka.
I would ask that they reconsider, since this is not the case.
I would like Mr Barón Crespo, who made the request, to speak to propose it.
We shall proceed to vote on the PPE-DE Group' s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda.
I would appreciate it if, on the close of this item of business, I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group.
It would be useful for the record of the House to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis.
I should like to address one final point.
I would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the report and, secondly, the Commission for the proposal it has submitted.
I would like to mention one final point.
I should like to make just a few comments.
I can live with these minimum standards, but I would ask the Commission to monitor the situation very carefully.
I would like to briefly comment on the Commission' s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road.
She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report.
I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament' s position.
The time has come to implement the programmes, and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly.
I would like to explain our thinking here.
I would like to ask if the Commission is able to enlighten us on the reasons for the delay in the Commission' s report on the outermost regions, which has been long awaited by Parliament?
I should be very grateful, Mrs Schroedter, if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations.
They are growing, but only in terms of GDP.
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.
I am thinking, for example, of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations.
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France, Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow.
We have discussed this and I have attempted to clarify my point of view.
They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities.
I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later.
We must give them this opportunity.
I should like to mention a few specific points.
We have taken note of this.
I would ask you to bring this specific case, which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor, to the attention of the Quaestors, who are, in fact, responsible for the matter.
It should continue along this path.
Competition should bring about balance in supply and demand and should provide for the optimum distribution of economic resources and facts.
The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition.
We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other.
I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary-speak, inappropriately in your case, as a maiden speech.
It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid.
They have lost their status, and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant.
You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice, both brought by German courts, which question the feasibility of applying 81(1) without being able to apply 81(3).
I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti.
We have been told how, currently, people's time is being wasted and that the changes, therefore, could be beneficial.
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that.
We can be proud of a European competition culture, for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality.
I will give you an example: the European Union was right to support the Grönitz steelworks in Brandenburg, although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained.
It would weaken a key element of European policy.
I will take these very quickly one at a time.
I must say that I find this a very good idea that we will probably take up.
We have received many excellent observations and contributions which give us the material to make a cost-benefit assessment for business.
We are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for SMEs.
We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised.
We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency, transparency, and the protection of the rights of individuals.
We can set another example here, to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular, fraud, and to mete out punishment where necessary.
I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question.
We should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and, especially, change our practice.
This issue has been brought once again to the fore by Commissioner Vitorino' s timely decision to ask the IGC to include in its agenda the creation of this new role, which everyone considers vital.
I was wondering whether this is the correct procedure.
We are convinced that the opposite is true, and we do not think that state aid is by definition excessive.
You are going to commission a fact-finding mission.
We should be aware, for example, that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil.
Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility, the identity of the owners and real decision-makers as impenetrable as possible.
This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency.
I will tell you a few things we should do.
We must reach agreement here, in all the European Union' s ports, from Marseilles, through to Rotterdam, to Wilhelmshaven, Cuxhaven, and wherever ships drop anchor.
I would compare the situation with an earlier generation' s introduction of the Plimsoll line, a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels.
I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls.
It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial, but include materials testing.
We must be tougher on vessels flying flags of convenience, not because they are necessarily bad boats, but because amongst these boats there are many bad ones.
We would like to know their names and their faces.
I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels' structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions.
States can carry out port inspections.
We must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end.
We will have the opportunity to do so on other occasions.
We have taken good note of your intentions.
I am telling you all of this to illustrate how complex the problem is, and I thank the Commission once again for extending their analysis of this situation as far as it could.
They have earned the confidence of their fellow-citizens.
I am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies, which have been particularly badly hit.
